CHAPTER 73 A half-witted servant-girl picks up a highly embarrassing object And an easy-going young mistress refuses to inquire into a theft As we were saying at the end of the last chapter, Aunt Zhao and Jia zileng were interrupted in the midst of their discussion by a sudden crash.
The maids, when questioned, said that it had been caused by an outer casement of one of the windows falling.
It could not have been properly fastened and must have slipped its catch.
After first roundly cursing them, Aunt Zhao went outside with them to supervise its replacement.
When she came in again, she helped Jia Zheng to settle down for the night.
And so we leave them.
Meanwhile, over at Green Delights, Bao-yu had just gone to bed.
The maids were themselves on the point of doing so when a sudden knocking was heard at the courtyard gate.
The old woman who opened it recognized the caller as a maid of Aunt Zhaos called Magpie, and asked her what she wanted but instead of answering, the girl pushed past her and rushed straight inside.
She found Bao-yu already lying down, but engaged in bantering conversation with Skybright and a couple of other maids who were sitting on the edge of his bed.
Whats the matter?
they asked when they saw who their visitor was.
What brings you out at this hour?
Ive come to warn you, said Magpie, addressing herself in an urgent whisper to Bao-yu.
I heard my mistress just now jabbering to Sir Zheng about something, and though I couldnt make out what they were talking about, I heard him say Bao-yu a couple of times.
I thought Id better put you on your guard in case he asks to see you tomorrow about anything.
436 She turned and hurried out again as soon as she had finished speaking.
Aroma told someone to run after her and ask her to stay for a cup of tea, but she was afraid of being shut inside the Garden when they closed the gate, and insisted on going back immediately.
Bao-yu knew that in Aunt Zhaos twisted imagination he was regarded as an enemy, and though he did not know what she had said, the mere fact that she had been talking about him was enough to make him feel uncomfortable all over, much as Monkey did when he heard Tripitaka reciting the spell for tightening the iron band round his head.
After giving the matter some thought, he concluded that the only practical way in which he could prepare himself for the morrow would be by revising his texts.
Should his father take it into his head to test him, he reasoned, then if only he could be word-perfect in his texts, it would not be so difficult to bluff his way through whatever else he might ask him.
Having made the decision, he hurriedly threw a gown over his shoulders and prepared to begin some revision, bitterly regretting that Jia Zhengs silence on the subject of lessons since his last return from duty had lulled him into a false sense of security.
I ought to have had more sense, he told himself.
One really ought to do a little bit every day, to keep in practice.
He began to reckon up how much he could still recite from memory.
He found that there was little more than The Great Learning, The Doctrine of the Mean and the two halves of the Analects that he could be absolutely sure of.
The first half of Mencius he knew reasonably well, but certainly not well enough to be able to carry on from any sentence given him at random.
The second half was virtually terra incognita.
Of the Five Classics he was fairly familiar with the Poetry Classic because he was frequently having to read bits of it in connection with his own versifying.
Though far from word-perfect, he probably knew it well enough to scrape through a test.
He could not remember any of the other classics at all but fortunately his father had so far never asked him to study them, so probably it would not matter.
When it came to Old Style Prose, the case was rather different.
Over the past few years he had read extracts from the Zuo, Gong-yang and Gu-liang 437 commentaries on the Spring and Autumn Annals and various Han and Tang pieces, but he had only dipped into them as the fancy took him he had not done any serious work on them.
There was certainly no question of his being able to remember them.
There was even less likelihood of his being able to pass muster on the Examination Essay.
He had always detested this style of writing in any case.
The Sage himself didnt write that way, he argued, so how could one hope to expound the inner meaning of his teachings through such a medium?
It was no more than a device used by vulgar fortune-seekers for starting themselves off on the golden road to success.
Before he left, Jia Zheng had selected a hundred of these essays for him to read but Bao-yu had only glanced at them occasionally, reading a paragraph here and a paragraph there as some particularly felicitous expression or the extravagance, humour or melancholy of the writer happened to catch his attention.
He had never settled down to the serious analytical examination of even a single essay.
He began to revise but the trouble was that whatever he revised now, he was sure to be asked about something else next day, and the whole night would not be long enough to revise everything.
It soon became apparent that all he was succeeding in doing was getting himself into an even worse state of nerves than he had been in to begin with and, while studying to no purpose himself, preventing a whole roomful of girls from sleeping as well.
Aroma and the other senior maids could at least occupy themselves by trimming his lamp, pouring him cups of tea and so forth but the younger ones could neither go to bed nor find any employment to keep themselves awake, and sat about the place, drooping and nodding in various attitudes of fatigue.
Skybright became indignant.
Lazy little wretches!
You sleep all day as it is.
Just for once in your lives you are asked to stay up late, and look at you!
If you dont liven yourselves up a bit, I shall come and stick pins in you all!
As she said this, there was a loud bang from the outer room.
It turned out to have been caused by a little maid who had dozed off while sitting on the kang and in doing so had 438 bumped her head against the partition.
Waking with a start just as Skybright was uttering this threat, she assumed that the bump on the head she had just received must have been dealt her by Skybright.
To the great amusement of the other girls she began tearfully begging her for mercy.
Oh no I Please, Skybright!
I promise I wont do it again!
Dont punish her, Bao-yu called out.
You ought to allow those younger ones to go to bed.
And you older ones too -you dont all need to stay up.
You should be taking it in tarns to get some sleep.
Little ancestor!
said Aroma exasperatedly.
You get on with your work!
Just for this one night try to concentrate all your energies on studying.
Once youve got over this hurdle you can make what other arrangements you like!
She sounded so earnest that for the next few minutes Bao-yu did in fact concentrate on his revision.
Musk handed him a cup of tea to moisten his lips with while he recited.
In taking it from her he noticed that she had only a short tunic on over her pantaloons.
It gets very cold at this time of night, he said.
You really ought to.
put something else on.
Musk smiled grimly and pointed at his book.
Just forget about me for a while could you?
Get your mind fastened on this!
Hardly had she finished saying this than Parfumee - or Aventurin as Bao-yu now called her - came running in from outside in a panic.
Oh God!
A mans just jumped down from the wall!
Where?
Where?
cried the others, and began shouting for the older servants to go and look.
To Skybright this scare came as a blessing in disguise.
Observing what heavy weather Bao-yu was making of his revision and foreseeing that if he wore himself out by staying up all night he would be in no condition for facing his ordeal in the morning, she had been casting about desperately for some means of rescuing him from it altogether.
This panic about an intruder gave her an idea.
Why dont you take advantage of this to get off tomorrow?
she asked him.
Tell them that the shock has made you ill. 439 This was a suggestion after Bao-yus own heart.
He had the watch called and ordered them to light their lanterns and make a thorough search.
But no intruder could be found.
I expect one of you young ladies had to go out for something in the dark and being still half-asleep, took the bough of a tree moving in the wind for a man, they said.
Nonsense!
said Skybright.
You only say that as an excuse, because you havent been keeping watch property and youre afraid of getting into trouble.
It wasnt only one of us who saw him a whole lot of us did and Bao-yu was with us.
The shock of it has made him quite ill. His face looks terrible and hes burning hot all over.
I shall be going over to Her Ladyships presently to get him a sedative.
Shes sure to ask me what has upset him.
What am I supposed to tell her?
That he took fright from looking at a tree?
This seemed to scare the women, for they made no reply but hurried off again to continue their search.
Meanwhile Skybright and Aventurin went off to ask for some pills, deliberately making as big a fuss as possible to make sure that everyone knew that Bao-yu had been taken ill as a result of seeing something alarming in the Garden.
Lady Wang sent someone to fetch the medicine for the two girls and gave orders for the members of the watch to make a full investigation.
She was particularly anxious that the pages from the inner gate who did night duty at the point nearest to the Garden should be subjected to careful questioning.
As a result of these orders there was a general hubbub in the Garden throughout all the rest of that night lanterns and torches bobbing about and people scurrying to and fro in all directions.
At four oclock in the morning the stewards and stewardesses were summoned from their quarters and ordered to investigate all those servants of either sex who had been on night duty in the mansion.
When Grandmother Jia learned that Bao-yu was suffering from shock, she wanted to know why.
The others were obliged to tell her.
I didnt expect a thing like this to happen, she said.
It would be bad enough if the people who are supposed to be keeping us safe at night were merely being careless.
What 440 worries me is the thought that some of them may be criminals themselves!
Lady Xing and You-shi had not long since arrived for their morning duty, and Li Wan, Xi-feng and the girls were also there in attendance.
None of them dared say anything.
In the end it was Tan-chun who, smiling, stepped forwards and broke the silence.
Its because Cousin Feng hasnt been very well during these last few months, she said.
The servants in the Garden have got much more careless than they used to be.
At first it was only once in a while three or four doing night duty on the same shift getting together for a little game of dice or cards to keep themselves awake.
But gradually they became more reckless, until now there are regular little card-schools with their own bankers and forty or fifty strings of cash changing hands at a sitting.
A fortnight ago it even reached a point where a fight broke out over the cards.
If you knew this at the time, why didnt you tell anyone?
said Grandmother Jia with some asperity.
I didnt tell Mother because I knew she was busy and not feeling very well, said Tan-chun.
I did tell sister-in-law though, and the stewardesses and the women were given several warnings.
As a matter of fact, I think they have been a bit more careful since then.
Youre only a child, said Grandmother Jia.
You dont know how serious this is.
You think that gambling is a trifling matter and that the only thing to be feared from it is an occasional quarrel.
But where there is gambling, there is probably drinking as well and if there is drinking, probably gates are being left unlocked so that people can slip out to buy things and when that happens, before you know where you are they will be letting thieves in - the easiest thing in the world when it is dark and there are so few people about.
And then - Heaven help.
us!
- with only you girls living there and the maids and women who wait on you - some of them no better than they should be, I dare say - anything could happen.
There are things worse than burglary, the mere suspicion of which could have the direst consequences for all of you.
No, this is not a matter to be dismissed so airily!
441 After such a snub, Tan-chun could only sit down again in silence.
Xi-feng was still far from well and her usual ebullience was very much in abeyance, but she managed to summon up some energy when she saw how seriously the old lady was displeased.
She made a point of observing how unfortunate it was that such things had to happen when she was ill, then, sending for Lin Zhi-xiaos wife and three of the other principal stewardesses, she subjected them to a thorough dressing-down in Grandmother Jias and everyone elses presence.
When Xi-feng had finished with them, Grandmother Jia ordered them to find out who the chief organizers were and all the others who had been taking part in the gambling.
She empowered them to offer rewards for information and to punish those who withheld it.
Seeing Grandmother Jia so angry, the stewardesses dared not attempt to cover up for their own kinswomen and friends, of whom there were several among the older women of the watch.
Going at once into the Garden, they summoned all the women together and proceeded to grill them, one by one, without distinction of persons.
They met at first with a certain amount of resistance, but in the end, as will almost invariably happen when the questioning is sufficiently patient and persistent, the waters subsided and the rocks began to appear.
By the time they had finished their interrogations it was established that there were three principal organizers, eight subsidiary ones, and a score or more gamblers who had availed themselves of their services.
All of these were taken at once to Grandmother Jias place, and were soon to be observed kneeling down in rows in her courtyard, knocking their heads upon the pavement and begging for mercy.
Grandmother Jia began by asking for the names of the three principal organizers and the amounts of money in their banks.
Of the three it turned out that one was a cousin on the mothers side of Lin Zhi-xiaos wife, one a younger sister of Cook Liu, and the other one Ying-chuns nurse.
The other eight organizers, who had operated on a smaller scale, were also named, but their identities need not concern us.
Grandmother Jia ordered all the dice and playing-cards to be col- 442 lected together and burnt.
The money from the banks she ordered to be confiscated and divided up among the other servants.
She sentenced the principal offenders to receive forty strokes of the heavy bamboo, to be dismissed, and never to be employed by the family again.
The others were to receive twenty strokes, lose three months pay, and in future be employed in cleaning out the latrines.
After passing these sentences, she formally reprimanded Lin Zhi-xiaos wife for having permitted such things to happen.
Lin Zhi-xiaos wife, let down by her own relation and twice rebuked in public, was not the only person present to feel humiliated.
Ying-chun, sitting among the other cousins next to Grandmother Jia, felt equally humiliated when it was revealed that her own nurse was one of the principal offenders.
Dai-yu, Bao-chai and Tan-chun felt sorry for her and rose to intercede for the old woman.
Couldnt you, for Ying-chuns sake, let her off this once?
they pleaded.
She isnt an habitual gambler.
Its just that once in a while she gets carried away.
You none of you know what you are talking about, said Grandmother Jia.
These old nannies are all the same.
They think that because they suckled you when you were babies it entitles them to special treatment now.
Theyre worse trouble than all the other servants put together, because whenever they have done wrong they think they can always get you to cover up for them.
I know.
I have had a lot of experience of these people.
I need to make an example of one of them, and this one will do very well.
You leave this to me.
I know what I am doing.
The three girls were obliged to let the matter drop.
Soon it was time for the old ladys siesta and all of those present withdrew.
But because they knew she was angry, they did not all go back to their own apartments.
Some of them waited around so as to be on hand when she had finished resting.
You-shi called in at Xi-fengs place to chat, but finding Xi-feng too much out of sorts for conversation, went into the Garden to talk to Li Wan and the girls.
Lady Xing, too, after sitting for a while at Lady Wangs place, went off to take a walk in the Garden.
She had got no farther than the 443 Garden gate, however, when one of the junior maids from Grandmother Jias apartment, a girl called Simple, almost bumped into her.
The girl was walking along chuckling delightedly to herself, intent on some brightly coloured object.
Because she was so intent on what she was holding, she had not seen Lady Xing coming towards her and only looked up and checked herself when she was almost upon her.
Well now, Simple, said Lady Xing, you seem very pleased with yourself.
What marvellous thing have you got there?
Let me have a look.
Simple, just turned fourteen, had only recently been selected to help with the rough work in Grandmother Jias apartment.
She had a hefty body, a broad face and an enormous pair of feet.
A willing and effective worker in the heavier sort of jobs requiring no intelligence, she was nevertheless so stupid as to be almost half-witted and as ignorant and innocent almost as the day she was born.
Much of what she said was unintentionally amusing.
Grandmother Jia was endlessly diverted by her and always allowed her mistakes to go unreproved.
It was she who had given her the name Simple.
When Simple had no work to do, she would often go into the Garden to play.
On this occasion she had gone into the Garden to look for crickets behind the rocks of the artificial mountain just inside the gate, and in doing so, had come upon a beautifully embroidered purse.
The design embroidered on it consisted not of the usual birds and flowers, but on one side of a pair of naked human figures locked together in an embrace and on the other of some writing.
Simple was too innocent to understand what the naked couple were up to.
After giving the matter some thought, she had decided that they must be either two demons fighting or two people wrestling, but could not make up her mind which of these was the correct interpretation.
She was on her way, chuckling delightedly over her find, to ask Grandmother Jias opinion on the matter when she nearly ran into Lady Xing.
I think youve said the right word, Your Ladyship, said Simple.
It is a marvellous thing.
You just look!
Lady Xing took the proffered bag.
She examined the picture on it with a start.
444 Where did you find this?
she asked, seizing Simple roughly by the arm.
I found it behind the rocks, said Simple, when I was looking for crickets.
Dont tell anyone else about this, said Lady Xing.
This is a bad thing, Simple.
If you werent such a simpleton, they would give you a beating just for touching it.
Dont ever say a word about it to anyone else!
Simple turned pale with fright.
No, no, I wont.
She made Lady Xing a kotow and went off, round-eyed, with her mouth gaping foolishly open.
Lady Xing looked around her.
There were only maids in sight, and she obviously could not give the embroidered purse to one of them, so she stuffed it up her sleeve.
She was very puzzled to think where it could have come from but no trace of what she felt was allowed to show itself on her face as she made her way through the Garden towards Ying-chuns apartment.
Ying-chun was still brooding disconsolately over her nurses guilt when her mothers arrival was announced.
She hurried out to welcome her.
As soon as Lady Xing was seated and had been given tea, she began laying into her.
Youre not a child now.
If you knew your nurse was doing this sort of thing, for Heavens sake why couldnt you have spoken to her about it?
Other peoples nurses dont seem to get into trouble, why does it have to be yours?
I dont understand you!
Ying-chun hung her head and fiddled with her sash.
It was some time before she answered.
I did speak to her about it, on two occasions, but she wouldnt listen to me.
What could I do?
Shes my nurse.
Shes supposed to tell me what to do, not the other way round.
Rubbish!
said Lady Xing.
Shes entitled to tell you off if youve done something wrong, but in a case like this where she was the guilty one, it was up to you to behave towards her like a mistress.
Then, if she still wouldnt obey you, you ought to have come and told me.
As it is, you have let things 445 slide until everyone knows about it and all the rest of us are involved in the disgrace.
I just dont know what you think you are at.
Incidentally, if she was banker to a card-school, she must have had to get money from somewhere to start it with.
I shouldnt be a bit surprised to find that shed talked you into lending her clothes or jewellery that she could pawn in order to raise her capital.
Youre such a soft, flabby creature, youd be just as likely as not to lend them to her.
Well all I can say is, if she has and you dont get them back from her, its no good coming to me for the money, for Ive none to give you so what you will do when festival time comes and you need your things I cant imagine.
Ying-chun continued to hang her head and say nothing.
Lady Xing found her unresponsiveness provoking.
Your mother was one of Sir Shes chamber-wives, she said, and your Cousin Tans mother was a chamber-wife as well, so you and she had the same sort of start in life.
As a matter of fact your mother was ten times better than that Zhao woman, so you ought by rights to be better than your Cousin Tan.
But youre not.
Youre not her equal in any single respect.
I dont know, Id have been better off without any children at all.
Those I have only make me look ridiculous.
Mrs Lian is here, one of the servants announced.
Huh!
said Lady Xing scornfully and then again, Huh!
Tell her to go back home and take care of her illness, she said to the waiting servant.
Tell her I have no need of her services.
As that servant went out, another one, who had been sent to Grandmother Jias place to act as a look-out, came in to report that the old lady was now awake.
Lady Xing got up to go.
Ying-chun saw her out as far as the courtyard gate.
There you are!
said Tangerine when Ying-chun got back.
When I told you the other day that that pearl-and-gold phoenix had disappeared, you wouldnt even ask about it.
I told you that Nannie had probably nicked it to pawn, but you wouldnt believe me.
You said, I expect Chess is looking after it.
Well, I asked Chess, because although she is in, she is still perfectly clear in her mind, and she said, No, I havent touched it.
It ought still to be in the casket on the bookshelf, 446 ready for wearing at the Mid-Autumn festival.
Now why dont you send someone to Nannie right away and ask her what shes done with it?
Theres no need to ask, said Ying-chun.
Its perfectly obvious that she took it because she was temporarily out of cash and needed the money from it to tide her over.
She quietly removed it when no one was looking, and I assumed that after a few days had gone by, when she was in funds again, she would redeem it and quietly slip it back again.
I expect she forgot.
In any case, theres not much point in asking her after what has happened today.
She never forgot!
said Tangerine.
She knew from past experience that youd never do anything, thats why she didnt put it back.
I think I know what to do, though.
Ill go and tell Mrs Lian about it, and either shell ask Nannie about it herself, or better still, shell send someone with a few strings of cash round to the pawnshop and get it back for you straight away.
Youll do no such thing!
said Ying-chun.
Much better leave well alone.
Id rather do without the thing than stir up a lot more trouble.
Why are you so feeble?
said Tangerine exasperatedly.
All this saving trouble!
One of these days theyll carry you off with the loot!
Im going, anyway.
She began to do so.
Ying-chun said nothing and made no attempt to prevent her.
Unknown to them both, however, Zhu-ers wife - the daughter-in-law of the old nurse they were talking about - had all this time been listening outside the door.
She had come intending to ask Ying-chun to put in a plea for her mother-in-law, but held back when she heard Ying-chun and Tangerine discussing the pearl-and-gold phoenix.
Because Ying-chun was so weak and unassertive, Zhu-ers wife would not normally have regarded the discovery by her of one of her mother-in-laws depredations as a matter of very much consequence but when she heard Tangerine insisting that Xi-feng should be informed, she could see that unless something were done to prevent this, the consequences could be very serious indeed.
At this point, therefore, she hurried in to try and stop her.
447 Now, now, Miss Tangerine, she said, smiling rather unnaturally, dont go making trouble!
Our old missus was a bit silly about that pearl-and-gold phoenix, I will admit.
Shed lost a bit at the cards and couldnt recoup, so she took it as a loan.
Naturally she never expected that all this trouble would break out before shed had a chance to put it back.
But be that as it may, its the mistresss property, and weve no intention of forgetting about it.
Sooner or later we fully intend to redeem it for her.
Id hardly be here now if we didnt, would I?
Ive come to ask the mistress, for the sake of the milk she sucked from her as a baby, to go to Her Old Ladyship and plead with her for our old missus.
My dear good woman, said Ying-chun, if that is what you are hoping for, then the sooner you disabuse yourself of that hope the better.
I am not going to plead for your motherin-law.
You can wait from now until this time next year if you like, but I will still not do it Miss Bao and Miss Lin and the others have tried already and Her Old Ladyship refused to listen to them.
Shes even less likely to listen to me on my own.
I have already put up with enough humiliation for one day I have no intention of going to look for more.
Whether or not you return that phoenix is one thing and whether or not the mistress goes to plead for your mother-in-law is another, said Tangerine.
Dont try to confuse the issue.
I hope youre not suggesting that if the mistress doesnt do what you ask for your mother-in-law, you wont redeem the phoenix?
I think you ought to redeem the phoenix first and start talking about that other matter after you have brought it back.
Ying-chuns refusal and Tangerines sharp rebuke put Zhuers wife out of countenance and left her momentarily at a loss for words, but she quickly found her tongue again and, as if openly contemptuous of Ying-chuns easy-going nature, began taking noisy issue with Tangerine in her mistresss presence.
Dont be so high and mighty, Miss Tangerine!
If you look around at the other apartments in this household, youll find that there isnt a single one in which the nannies dont take some advantage of their position to get a few perks.
I dont 448 -347 see why only in our case you should be so pernickety.
If you are a bit light-fingered, of course, thats another matter!
Ever since Miss Xing came to live with us, Lady Xing has insisted on a tad a month being stopped out of her allowance to help pay for her mother.
That means that though we now have two mistresses here in the place of one - with all the extra expenses that that entails - we are having to manage on less money a month instead of more.
Its hardly surprising that the mistresses are always running short.
And when they do, who is it that steps in and pays?
We do.
One way and another, we must have paid out at least thirty taels by now, and from what I can see, it was money down the drain.
Thirty taels?
said Tangerine indignantly.
How do you make that out?
Just tell me one or two of the things the mistress is supposed to have asked you for.
Ying-chun had been made uneasy by the open reference to her mothers meanness.
Now thats enough!
she told the woman.
If you cant give the phoenix back, you cant.
Theres no need to go dragging all these other matters into it and shouting them around for everyone else to hear.
I dont want the thing, anyway.
If mother asks me about it, I shall tell her Ive lost it.
At least you wont have anything to worry about, so you might just as well go away and rest.
Whats the point of making all this fuss?
She told Tangerine to pour her some tea.
Tangerine was both angry and alarmed.
Its all very well for you to take that way out, miss, but what about us?
Not content with depriving you of your gold phoenix, this woman is now pretending that youve been spending their money and proposing to write off the phoenix to offset what theyre supposed to have given you.
If Lady Xing hears that and asks how you came to be spending so much, its we servants who will take the blame.
It isnt fair!
She burst into tears.
Chess, who, as she lay ill in bed, had been listening with growing impatience to what the others were saying, could now contain herself no longer.
Getting out of bed, she dragged herself over to take Tangerines part in the argument.
Ying-chun, finding that her single attempt at 449 ending it had failed, picked up a volume of Tai-shangs Heavenly Rewards and Punishments and began to read.
While Zhu-ers wife and the two maids were still at it hammer and tongs, Bao-chai, Dai-yu, Bao-qin and Tan-chun arrived.
Concerned that Ying-chun might still be feeling distressed about her nurse, they had met together by pre-arrangement and come over to try and cheer her up.
Sounds of the wrangling going on inside were distinctly audible as they entered her courtyard.
Tan-chun walked over and, peeping through the window, saw Ying-chun half-reclining on the day-bed reading a book, oblivious to the noisy argument that was going on only a few feet away from her.
She laughed.
Just at that moment two junior maids raised the portiere for the visitors and announced their arrival.
At once Ying-chun put her book down and rose to welcome them.
The sight of these newcomers - particularly as Tan-chun was one of them - caused the woman to stop of her own accord and she took the opportunity of slipping quietly outside.
Who was that talking in here just now ?
said Tan-chun as she took a seat.
It sounded as if someone was having an argument.
Oh, nothing, said Ying-chun, pleasantly.
Probably only the servants making their usual fuss about nothing.
Certainly not anything worth inquiring about.
Im sure I heard something about a golden phoenix just now, said Tan-chun.
I distinctly heard someone say, When shes short of money, she always asks us servants for some.
When whos short of money?
Not you , Ying, surely?
You dont ask the servants for money, do you?
Youre absolutely right, miss, she most certainly does not, said Chess and Tangerine indignantly.
Tan-chun smiled.
Well, Ying, if it wasnt you the woman I heard was talking about, perhaps it was me?
Youd better call her inside again and let me ask her.
Now youre being ridiculous, said Ying-chun, laughing.
Why be like this?
It has absolutely nothing to do with you.
There you are wrong, said Tan-chun.
You and I are in 450 the same boat.
Our circumstances are very similar.
What she says affects me as much as it does you.
It would be just the same if you were to hear someone at my place complaining about me.
You would feel almost as though you were being criticized yourself.
As mistresses, you and I are above talking to servants about the petty cash.
We may ask them for things sometimes, as and when we require them, but that is another matter.
Tell me, though how did a pearl-and-gold phoenix come to be mixed up in this discussion?
Zhu-ers wife, terrified lest Tangerine should seize this opportunity to denounce her, came rushing in at this point and tried to put Tan-chun off the scent with her own extremely garbled account of what had happened.
But Tan-chun showed that she had a better understanding of the case than the woman supposed.
I think you are being very stupid, she said smilingly.
What you ought to do, now that your mother-in-law has already got herself into trouble, is to go to Mrs Lian before the money confiscated has been divided up and ask if you can have some of it back to redeem this jewellery with.
Ideally, of course, it would have been better if you could have redeemed it before all this trouble broke out and saved yourselves a bit of face.
But now that you have no face left to save, youd much better make a clean breast of it and get the money.
After all, your mother-in-law has already been found guilty.
However many crimes shes committed, they can only cut her head off once.
You take my advice.
Go round to Mrs Lians place as soon as possible and make a clean breast of it.
Standing around here shouting is not going to get you anywhere!
The woman was forced to admit that Tan-chuns reading of the situation was correct.
But she was too scared to go to Xi-feng and confess.
If I hadnt heard you talking about this, it would have been none of my business, said Tan-chun.
But now that I have heard, I think you had better let me take over and do the explaining for you.
Unknown to the others, Tan-chun had tipped Scribe the wink a minute or two previously and Scribe had slipped out- 451 -347 side to summon help.
It was no surprise to Tan-chun, therefore, that Patience should have walked in just as she was saying this but to the others her appearance at that moment was little short of miraculous.
Bao-qin clapped her hands delightedly.
I always knew Cousin Tan was a witch.
Now here comes her familiar spirit!
Its not witchcraft, its generalship, said Dai-yu.
Dont you remember what it says in The Art of War?
A shy maiden in defence, but swift as a hare in the attack.
-347 In good generalship surprise is of the essence.
A look from Bao-chai caused the two girls to drop their bantering and talk of something else while Tan-chun addressed herself to the new arrival.
Is your mistress any better yet?
she asked Patience.
She seems to have completely lost her grip on things since she had this illness.
Its very unfortunate for people like me who have to put up with the consequences.
Oh?
said Patience in some surprise.
Has someone been giving you trouble, miss?
If you will let me know what I can do, I am at your disposal.
Zhu-ers wife was now in a panic.
She bounded up to Patience and was all over her before Tan-chun could get a word in.
Sit down while I tell you, Miss Patience.
I can explain it all.
Patience gave her a long, hard look.
Miss Tan and I are talking.
What right have you to come butting in like this?
If you had any manners at all, you wouldnt even be in this room, youd be waiting respectfully outside.
Whoever heard of an outside servant going into one of the young mistresses apartments without being asked?
Manners?
said Tangerine.
You wont find many around here.
People barge in and out of this apartment as they please.
Its your fault then if they do, said Patience sharply.
If Miss Ying is too gentle to do so, you ought to throw them out yourselves and then go and report them to Her Ladyship.
452 Zhu-ers wife reddened at Patiences rebuke and took herself outside.
Now I can answer your question, Tan-chun said to Patience.
This is not actually my affair.
If it were, perhaps I shouldnt have minded quite so much.
What happened is that this womans mother-in-law, trading on the fact that she used to be Miss Yings wet-nurse when she was a baby and taking advantage of Miss Yings easy-going nature, took some of her jewellery without telling her in order to raise money for her gambling.
As if that wasnt enough, this woman had the gall to pretend that Miss Ying owed them money in order that she could blackmail her into interceding for her mother-in-law.
I found her and these two maids shouting at each other in Miss Yings bedroom while Miss Ying sat by helpless.
Now that you are here, I should like to ask you this question.
Is this woman really so thick-witted that she doesnt know any better, or has someone else put her up to this?
I mean, is there some plan to undermine Miss Ying first and then, when she is safely out of the way, to get to work on me and on Miss Xi?
Oh miss!
said Patience, endeavouring to treat the question as a joke, how could you?
Mrs Lian is not as bad as that!
Im sure I dont know, said Tan-chun coldly.
You know the saying Like grieves for like for when the lips are gone, the teeth will be cold.
When I saw what was happening to Miss Ying, I couldnt help feeling nervous.
Patience turned to Ying-chun questioningly.
It would be easy enough to deal with this matter if it werent that this woman is the wife of your foster-brother.
Its really up to you, miss.
Ying-chun had all this time been sitting shoulder to shoulder with Bao-chai, reading one of the stories in Rewards-and-Punishments.
She had not even heard what Tan-chun had been saying and had only the haziest idea what was required of her when she suddenly found herself being addressed.
She smiled back, however, and did her best to oblige.
Dont ask me!
she said.
Theres absolutely nothing that I can do about it.
If they will go getting themselves into trouble, they must face the consequences.
All I can say is that I cant do anything to get their punishment reduced and I 453 wont do anything to increase it.
As for that object they took from me without telling me, if they do bring it back I shall be happy to receive it if they dont bring it back I shall not ask them for it.
If either of Their Ladyships should ask me about it, I shall keep the facts hidden from them if I can do so honourably, in which case these people may consider themselves lucky but if I cant, I shall just have to tell them the truth.
It is quite out of the question that I should deliberately deceive Their Ladyships in order to cover up for them.
You say I am too easy-going and indecisive if you know of a better way of dealing with this matter that is both fool-proof and will not upset Their Ladyships, by all means go ahead with it I shall certainly not interfere.
The others were much amused by this answer.
Ying-chun makes me think of that monk who went on discussing theological matters while wolves and tigers prowled outside in his courtyard, said Dai-yu laughing.
How on earth would she have controlled a great household like ours if she had been a man?
Thats begging the question, said Ying-chun, smiling.
There are plenty of men who live off the fat of the land but who, in a crisis, are no better at dealing with things than I.
Anyway, Tai-shang says that of all works of merit helping people when they are in trouble is the greatest.
I may not be able to help anyone, but at least I am not going out of my way to make things worse for them.
What is the point of gratuitously making enemies or exerting oneself for ends from which no one will benefit?
Before she had finished, another visitor was heard arriving in the courtyard.
Who this was will be revealed in the following chapter.
CHAPTER 74 Lady Wang authorizes a raid on Prospect Garden And Jia Xi-chun breaks off relations with Ning-guo House Patience was greatly amused by the tone of Ying-chuns answer to her inquiry.
Ying-chuns further self-justification in reply to Dai-yus comment was cut short by the arrival of another visitor.
It was at this point that we concluded the last chapter.
The visitor was Bao-yu.
When it was known that one of the chief organizers of the gambling was Cook Lius younger sister, Cook Lius enemies in the Garden regarded this as a good opportunity for making another attempt to oust her from her kitchen.
Going in a body to Xi-feng, they accused her of being in partnership with her sister and receiving equal shares of her takings, and they demanded that Xi-feng should take appropriate action to punish her.
Cook Liu, when she heard this, was at first panic-stricken then, remembering her friends at Green Delights, she hurried over there, taking great care that nobody saw her on the way, and begged Skybright and Aventurin to tell Bao-yu what had happened.
It occurred to Bao-yu, when they told him, that as Ying-chuns nurse was in trouble for the same offence, it would be more effective to join forces with Ying-chun in pleading for clemency than to go along on his own and plead only for Cook Liu.
It was in order to discuss this matter that he had come to see Ying-chun.
Unfortunately, when he arrived, he found that she was not alone.
Are you better now?
the others asked him.
They supposed that he was still suffering from shock.
What have you come for?
He could not state the real purpose of his visit in front of so many people and merely told them that he had come to see 455 how Ying-chun was getting on.
The others believed him, and a desultory conversation followed about nothing in particular.
Patience now went off to deal with the pearl-and-gold phoenix.
Zhu-ers wife followed at her elbow, begging to be let off.
For charitys sake, dont tell her, miss!
I promise you faithfully, that phoenix will be redeemed.
So you keep saying, said Patience, drily.
What a pity you couldnt have redeemed it a bit sooner and saved yourself this trouble!
You want to wriggle out of this somehow without telling her, dont you?
Well, I cant say that I am very keen on informing against you, myself.
Ill tell you what you get that thing back as quickly as possible and hand it over to me, and I wont say anything about it to my mistress.
Zhu-ers wife was so relieved that she went down on her knees to thank her.
You carry on now with whatever you are doing, miss.
Ill have it ready for you by this evening.
Ill bring it to show you as soon as Ive redeemed it, and then Ill take it back to Miss Yings.
How will that be?
All right, said Patience.
But if you dont turn up with it this evening, you will have only yourself to blame for what happens.
The two young women then went their separate ways.
Well?
said Xi-feng, when Patience got back to her apartment.
What did Miss Tan want you for?
She was worried that you might have been fretting over this gambling business, said Patience, smiling.
She asked me how youd been eating this last day or two.
Thats very kind of her, said Xi-feng.
Oh, theres more trouble, by the way.
Some of them have just been here accusing Cook Liu of being mixed up in the gambling business with her sister.
Theyre saying, in fact, that she was the real organizer.
However, remembering how insistent you always are that I should let well alone and only think of my health, I took no action.
Last time I ignored your advice and had someone punished, I not only offended Lady Xing but also ended up by making myself ill.
So this time I knew better.
They can do as they please, I dont care.
Someone else can do the worry- 456 ing.
I have nearly destroyed myself by worrying and the only result of it is that everyone hates me.
Very well.
Now all I am going to think about is getting better.
And when I am better, I am going to turn myself into a Mr Yes-yes.
No matter what frightful things the others get up to, I shall just say Yes, yes when I hear about them.
Yes, yes, I shall say, and not give them a single other thought!
If only you would be like that, said Patience smiling, what a blessing it would be for us all!
At that moment Jia Lian came in, sighing and striking his hands together with vexation.
More trouble I When I borrowed that stuff from Faithful the other day to pawn, how could Mother have got to hear about it?
She had me over there just now and asked me to borrow two hundred taels for her.
She said she wanted it for the Mid-Autumn festival.
I said I didnt know who I could borrow two hundred taels from at the moment.
If you cant borrow the money, you can easily find something to raise it on, she said.
Dont always make excuses.
Dont know who to borrow it from, indeed!
You could spirit all those things out of Lady Jias room when you chose to, yet now you make difficulties about raising a paltry two hundred taels for me!
Youre lucky I havent told anyone what youve been up to.
Im certain Mother isnt really short of money.
This is sheer, gratuitous trouble-making on her part.
There were no outsiders here on that occasion, said Xi-feng.
I wonder how the news could have leaked out.
Patience, who had been listening to their conversation, tried hard to remember who had been present.
After some moments it came back to her.
I know.
There was no one else here that day while you were talking to Faithful, but in the evening, when she sent the stuff round, that mother of Simples who works for Her Old Ladyship called in with some laundry and afterwards sat quite a long while talking in the kitchen.
If she saw that great trunk there, it would have been only natural to ask what was inside it, and the maids might well have told her, without realizing that they were not supposed to.
I wouldnt be at all surprised if thats how it got about.
She called some of the junior maids in to question them.
457 Which of you told Simples mother the other day what was in that trunk?
The maids knelt down in terror and swore by the most sacred oaths that they had said nothing.
Were always most careful not to say too much to anyone.
When people ask us anything, we always say that we dont know.
Wed certainly never have told her about that!
Xi-feng considered the probabilities.
Somehow I dont think they would have told her.
At all events, there is no point in harrving them about it now.
We shall just have to put that question behind us.
The important thing now is to make sure that Mother gets what she wants.
Id rather we went short ourselves than risk her making another lot of trouble.
She turned to Patience.
Take some of my gold things again and get us another two hundred taels.
-As soon as she has the money ready, you can take it to Mother immediately, and that should be the end of the matter, she told Jia Lian.
Might as well raise four hundred taels while you are about it, said Jia Lian.
We could do with another two hundred ourselves.
I dont see that at all, said Xi-feng.
We dont really need two hundred taels ourselves.
And in any case, if we raise so much now, where is the money corning from later for getting the things out of pawn?
Patience fetched the now familiar gold necklaces and told Brighties wife to take them to the pawnshop.
Soon afterwards Brighties wife was back again with the cash and Jia Lian went in person to hand it over to his mother.
While Jia Lian was taking the money to Lady Xing, Xi-feng and Patience continued to ask themselves who could have leaked the information about the surreptitious removal of Grandmother Jias valuables.
Its too bad!
said Xi-feng.
Poor Faithful will be in trouble over this, and all because of us.
While they were still wondering who it could have been, Lady Wang was announced.
This was a surprise, for Xi-feng could think of no reason why she should be visiting them.
She and Patience hurried out to greet her.
Lady Wang had only one maid, a trusted junior, in attend- 458 ance.
There was an angry expression on her face and she walked swiftly through the house into the inner room and sat down grimly on the kang, all without uttering a word.
Xi-feng, concealing her apprehension behind a smile, hurriedly served her with tea.
Its an unusual honour to have you here, Aunt.
Patience, leave the room!
Lady Wang commanded.
Yesm, said Patience, wondering what on earth could be the matter, and hurried out, taking all the other maids with her.
She stood by the outer door until they were all outside, then closed it after her and sat down at the top of the steps to prevent anyone going in.
As Xi-feng, now thoroughly alarmed, watched her aunt and wondered why she had come, Lady Wang, who appeared to be on the point of weeping, drew an embroidered pouch from her sleeve and threw it on the kang.
Look at that!
Xi-feng hastily picked it up and found herself, to her great surprise, looking at a lewd picture, beautifully embroidered in silks.
Where did you get it from?
she asked.
The tears that had collected in Lady Wangs eyes pouted down her cheeks now and the voice in which she answered was choked and trembling.
Where did I get it from?
I sit all day at the bottom of a well.
As you seemed such a conscientious young woman, I thought I could leave things to you and enjoy some leisure, but it seems that you are no better at managing than I.
Fancy leaving a thing like that in the Garden - on a rockery, too, in broad daylight, where everyone could see it!
It was picked up by one of Grandmothers maids.
If your mother-in-law hadnt fortunately spotted the girl carrying it, it would have gone straight to Grandmother.
I think its for you to tell me how it came to be dropped there.
It was Xi-fengs turn to look angry.
How do you know its mine?
Lady Wang sighed and shed a few more tears.
How can you ask me that?
Who in this household apart from you and Lian could a thing like this belong to?
The old 459 women would have no use for a thing like this and none of the girls would know where to get one from.
Obviously that wretched, worthless Lian must have got hold of it from somewhere and you, treating it, I suppose, as a great joke, were only too happy to receive it from him.
I know that young couples do go in for this sort of thing why try to deny it?
But the young people in the Garden are still innocent.
Suppose one of their maids had picked it up and shown it to them?
It doesnt bear thinking of.
Or suppose a maid had picked it up and told someone from outside that she had found it in the Garden?
What sort of reputation would that leave our family with?
It would be better to die than that such a thing should happen.
A mixture of shame and exasperation caused the blood to rush into Xi-fengs face.
She fell on her knees beside the kang.
There were tears in her own eyes when she answered, but they were tears of anger.
What you say is no doubt very reasonable, Aunt, and I have no wish to argue with you, but I really dont own anything like this and I really must ask you to reconsider one or two of the things you have said.
First of all, take another look at this bag.
It wasnt made here.
One can see at a glance that it is a poor commercial imitation of palace embroidery.
Even the tassels are the kind you would buy outside.
I may be young and frivolous, but Id hardly be likely to want a trashy thing like this.
Secondly, this isnt the sort of thing one would carry around with one.
Even if it were mine, I should keep it hidden somewhere in a secret place, not walk around with it on my person, particularly if I were going into the Garden.
The girls and I are always holding each other and pulling each other about, so that ifI were wearing a thing like this, it would very quickly get noticed, and what should I feel like then, if one of the girls or one of the maids were to look at it?
Thirdly, I may be the only young married woman with a husband in the family, but there are plenty of even younger married women among the servants who are often in and out of the Garden.
How can you be so sure that it wasnt one of them who dropped this bag?
Then there are those younger concubines of Sir Shes, like Carmine and Azure.
Mother often 460 takes one or two of them with her when she goes into the Garden.
They would be even more likely to own a thing like this.
And Zhens wife herself isnt all that old, not to mention Lovey and Dove, whom she frequently takes with her when she goes there.
How do you know it doesnt belong to one of them?
And in any case, there are so many maids in the Garden, how can you be so sure that all of them are pure?
There may be one or two of the older ones who are not so innocent.
One of them could have slipped out on some pretext or other when no one was looking to flirt with the pages on the inner gate and got it from one of them.
Its perfectly possible.
But I can assure you that I have never possessed a thing like this, and I know that Patience hasnt either.
So I really must ask you to reconsider.
Lady Wang was somewhat overwhelmed by this torrent of words, but had to admit their reasonableness.
You can get up, she said with a sigh.
It was wrong of me to accuse you.
I ought to have known that a young woman of your breeding would not be guilty of such unseemliness.
I am afraid I was overwrought and allowed anger to get the better of me.
But what am I to do?
Your mother-in-law saw fit to send this thing round to me by a messenger.
I was terribly upset when I unwrapped it and saw what it was.
The first thing to do is to try not to be so upset, said Xi-feng.
If the servants become aware that something is wrong, the chances of Grandmother getting to hear about it will be much greater.
If we can remain cool and carry out our investigations in secret, we are much more likely to get at the truth, and even if we dont, no one outside is going to be any the wiser.
We should pick four or five of our most trusted servants to do the investigating - people like Thou Ruis wife and Brighties wife who can be relied upon not to talk - and send them into the Garden as replacements of the women who have been dismissed.
The pretext for their investigations can be that there are various things connected with the gambling that still remain to be cleared up.
The other thing we must do something about is the number of the maids.
There are far too many of them.
As they get older, they begin to get grown-up ideas, and one can never be quite sure 461 that they may not get up to some mischief.
Its no good waiting until something has actually happened before doing anything, because then it will already be too late on the other hand to begin large-scale dismissals straight away would be very distressing for the girls and probably for us as well.
It would be better to wait until each maid either reaches a certain age or shows signs of growing insubordinate, and then use the first slip she makes as grounds for dismissing her and marrying her to one of the boys.
In that way we can both avoid having trouble and at the same time make a considerable reduction in our expenses.
Lady Wang sighed.
You are of course right.
But in fairness to our girls I think it must be said that they are already making do with the absolute minimum of service.
Not one of them has more than two or three maids who are the least bit of use.
The others are like a pack of mischievous children.
And I am not the only one who would feel unhappy about cutting down the numbers I think it highly probable that Grandmother, too, would object.
After all, things may be a bit difficult at present, but we cant be all that poor.
I wouldnt lay claim to any great riches, but I think I may perhaps be a little bit better off than the rest of you.
So if there is any talk of economy, Id rather do without myself than see the girls suffer.
The important thing now is to call in Thou Ruis wife and one or two of our other women and get them to begin these secret investigations for us as quickly as possible.
Xi-feng at once called Patience in and explained what was wanted.
Patience went out again and within a short time had assembled five of Lady Wangs and Xi-fengs most trusted retainers Zhou Ruis wife, Wu Xings wife and Zheng Huas wife from among Lady Wangs servants and Brighties wife and Happys wife from among Xi-fengs.
Lady Wang thought they might not be enough for the sort of detailed investigation she had in mind.
While she was wondering who else to get, Wang Shan-baos wife walked in.
Wang Shan-baos wife, like Goody Fei, was one of the servants who had been with Lady Xing since her childhood and accompanied her when she came to the Jia household as a 462 bride.
It was she, in fact, who had brought the embroidered bag to Lady Wang, and she had trailed along to Xi-fengs place out of curiosity, to see what she would do about the discovery.
Lady Wangs past observation of these trusted henchwomen of her sister-in-law had not been sufficient to make her mistrust them and she welcomed this new arrival as a reinforcement.
Ah, just the person!
she said as she caught sight of her.
After you have reported back to your mistress, you will be able to go with these others into the Garden and keep an eye on them for me.
On a number of past visits to the Garden Wang Shan-baos wife had been greatly put out by the failure of the maids there to show her the respect and consideration that she felt to be her due but dearly as she would have liked to teach those young creatures a lesson, she had not so far found a sufficient pretext for doing so.
This discovery of an obscene object in the Garden was, in her eyes, a godsend, and her recruitment by Lady Wang to play a part in the investigations arising out of it was the kind of opportunity she had dreamed of.
Well get to the bottom of this easy enough, dont you worry, madam, she said.
What you need in that Garden is more discipline, if you dont mind my saying so, and has been for some time.
To see the way those young maids carry on there, you would think they were princesses.
They can have that whole place in an uproar, yet none of us dares to breathe a word against them, for we know that if we did, they would go running off to their young mistresses and get them to complain that its them we have been criticizing and that is a charge which none of us is willing to stand up to.
Lady Wang nodded.
Yes, I suppose the girls who wait on the young mistresses are inclined to be a bit spoiled.
The young mistresses maids are by no means the worst, said Wang Shan-baos wife.
The worst of the lot is that Skybright that works in Bao-yus room.
Because shes a bit better-looking than the others and a bit readier with her tongue, she goes around dolled up all the time like a Xi-shi, putting everyone else in their place.
She likes the sound of 463 her own voice, does that young woman, and she likes to have her own way.
If you say the slightest little thing to offend her, up fly her eyebrows and she will begin telling you exactly what she thinks of you.
Oh, shes a proper little madam, that one!
Not much of the maidservant about her!
A sudden recollection seemed to strike Lady Wang while Wang Shan-baos wife was speaking.
She turned to Xi-feng questioningly.
I remember last time I was in the Garden with Lady Jia seeing a maid, a snaky-waisted girl with narrow, sloping shoulders and something of your Cousin Lin about the eyes, shouting at one of the junior maids, and thinking what a thoroughly objectionable young woman she must be.
I didnt say anything at the time because I was with Lady Jia.
I meant to try and find out who she was afterwards, but I forgot.
I wonder if this is the same girl?
It sounds uncommonly like her.
Skybright is certainly the best-looking of the maids, said Xi-feng cautiously, and as regards her behaviour and manner of speaking, I suppose you could say she is.
inclined to be a little too free.
The person you describe certainly sounds as if it might have been her, but as I wasnt myself there at the time, I wouldnt like to say for sure that it was.
Theres no need to go on wondering, said Wang Shanbaos wife.
We can call her here this minute and Her Ladyship can see for herself whether its her or not.
Whenever I see anyone from Bao-yus room, its always either Aroma or Musk, said Lady Wang.
Both of them are the kind of plain, simple girl I like.
They would never send the kind of girl we are talking about to see me because they know that that is just the sort of creature I cannot abide.
Oh dear!
One cant help wondering, when a thing like this happens suppose Bao-yu were to be corrupted by a little harpy like that... After some moments reflection, she called in her own maid from outside.
I want you to go over to Master Baos place and say that there is something I want to ask them about.
Say that I would 464 rather Aroma and Musk stayed behind to look after Bao-yu.
There is a girl there called Skybright who is very intelligent.
You can tell her to come.
Say she is to come over with you straight away.
You are not to say anything to her on the way here.
Yes, my lady, said the maid, and hurried off to Green Delights.
When she arrived Skybright, who had recently been feeling far from well, was just getting up from a nap and was only half awake but as the order said Come at once, she had to go with the maid as she was, with no time to make herself presentable.
However, this did not unduly concern her.
Knowing Lady Wangs aversion to people of her type, she would normally have felt some nervousness about having to appear before her.
On this occasion she took comfort from the fact that her indisposition over the last few days had caused her to neglect her appearance.
Dowdiness would count in her favour.
Alas!
When she arrived in Xi-fengs room, Lady Wang took one look at this languid vision with its tousled hair, crooked hairpins and rumpled dress and felt all the anger she had just conquered rising up again inside her - particularly when she recognized this as being almost certainly the same girl as the one who had aroused her ire on that previous occasion a month before in the Garden.
Good gracious me I she exclaimed sarcastically.
What swooning Xi-shi have we here?
For whose benefit do you go around in this extraordinary get-up?
Dont imagine I dont know what your little game is, young lady!
I may not have done anything about you yet, but Ill have the skin off you one of these days!
- Is Bao-yu any better?
Though shaken by the unexpectedness of this onslaught, Skybright realized at once that someone must have been saying things about her.
And although understandably angry, she managed to keep her head.
She was too intelligent not to realize that the question about Bao-yu was a trap.
She knelt to answer it.
I dont often go into Bao-yus room, madam, or see much of him, so I am afraid I am not able to tell you.
Its 465 Aroma and Musk who mostly wait on him.
They would be able to give Your Ladyship an answer.
Little liar!
said Lady Wang.
Youve got eyes in your head, havent you?
Whats the good of employing you if you cant even tell me whether hes well or not?
I used to be Her Old Ladyships maid, said Skybright.
She selected me for night duty in the outer room at Green Delights because she thought that, going to live in the big, empty Garden he might get frightened at night.
I told Her Old Ladyship that I was too stupid to work for Bao-yu, but that only made her angry.
She said, Im not asking you to wait on him personally.
You dont need to be clever for the job Im asking you to do.
So after that I had to go.
I dont see him very often.
He might call me in once or twice every ten days or so to ask me about something and I just answer him and go back to my work.
His meals and all the personal service are looked after either by the older servants and nannies or by Aroma and Musk and Ripple.
Whenever Ive got time for it, I still have a lot of Her Old Ladyships sewing to do.
Im afraid I dont pay much attention to what Bao-yu is doing.
I will do so in future, if Your Ladyship wishes me to.
Lady Wang was completely taken in.
Please dont trouble yourself, she said hastily.
Holy name!
Im only too happy to learn that you dont see much of him.
So you were given to him by Her Old Ladyship.
I suppose in that case I shall have to see her first before I can dismiss you.
She turned to Wang Shan-haos wife.
When you and the others go into the Garden, I want you to take particular care that this girl is kept well away from Bao-yu.
Make sure that she doesnt sleep in the same room.
I shall be dealing with her in a few days time, when I have had a chance of speaking about her to Her Old Ladyship.
As she turned again momentarily towards Skybright, her voice rose almost into a shout.
Get out of here!
The sight of you standing there like a young trollop offends my eyes!
Who gave you permission anyway to dress yourself up in that garish fashion?
Skybright left the room, utterly crushed.
She buried her 466 face in her handkerchief as soon as she was outside the door and wept into it every step of the way back to Green Delights.
Meanwhile Lady Wang was telling Xi-feng how much she regretted her remissness in having allowed creatures like Skybright to inhabit the Garden for so long undisturbed.
I wish I had had the energy to keep a closer watch on things, she said.
I never expected to find a young flibbertigibbet like that in the Garden.
And I suppose if there is one there like that, there are likely to be others like it as well.
Xi-feng could see that Lady Wang was too incensed to reason with and however much she might have said to the point, she would not in any case have dared to do so in front of Wang Shan-baos wife, who was one of her mother-in-laws principal informants and a most notorious stirrer-up of trouble.
She merely lowered her head, therefore, and murmured assent.
It was Wang Shan-baos wife who spoke.
Dont upset yourself, my lady.
Leave all these little things to me.
Theres a very easy way of getting to the bottom of this business.
Tonight, when the Garden gates have been shut and there is no chance of word getting through inside, well make a surprise visit and search all the maids rooms in each of the apartments.
Whoever owned this thing were trying to find out about must have other things like it as well, so if we find anything like it in our search, we shall have found the owner.
That sounds like a good idea, said Lady Wang.
We shall never get anywhere unless we do something like that.
-What do you think?
she asked Xi-feng.
Xi-feng deemed it impolitic to disagree.
If you think its all right, Aunt, I should let her do it.
I do think its all right, said Lady Wang emphatically.
Unless we do it this way, we might spend a year investigating and still get nowhere.
A raid was accordingly planned for that very evening.
After dinner, when Grandmother Jia had retired for the night and the cousins had all returned to their apartments, Wang Shan-baos wife, having first asked Xi-feng to accompany her, led her litile party into the Garden.
After ordering all the 467 side gates to be closed, she set about searching immediately, beginning with the room just inside the Garden gate which was used by the women of the night watch as a rendez-vous.
Nothing of interest was discovered there except for a few candle-ends and a little leftover lamp-oil which someone had evidently put by to take home.
However, Wang Shan-baos wife solemnly pronounced them to be stolen property no one was to touch these things, she said, until Lady Wang had been informed and the appropriate steps had been taken.
They proceeded to Green Delights, barring the courtyard gates after them as soon as they were inside.
Bao-yu was still worrying about Skybright when this party of women came bursting into his courtyard and, without a word of explanation, walked straight into the part of the house occupied by the maids.
On going out to investigate he ran into Xi-feng and asked her what was happening.
Xi-feng went indoors tosit down with him and accepted a cup of tea.
Something important is missing that no one will own up to having taken, she said.
Its thought that one of the maids in the Garden might have stolen it, so they are searching everyone in order to clear the innocent ones of suspicion.
While Xi-feng was explaining this to Bao-yu, Wang Shan-baos wife was proceeding with her search.
Whose are these trunks?
she asked, and demanded that the owners should come forward and open them.
Aroma had suspected that some sort of trouble lay ahead when she saw the state that Skybright was in when she returned from her interview.
The raid confirmed her premonition.
Resignedly she set the other maids an example by opening her own trunks and boxes first.
Nothing of interest was found in them.
The searchers passed on.
Each girl stood by her own things and opened them up as the searchers came to them.
Finally only Skybrights trunk remained.
Which girls is this?
said Wang Shan-baos wife.
Why doesnt she come forward and open it?
Aroma was on the point of opening it herself when Skybright, who, to judge from the state her hair was in, had only just got out of bed, came rushing into the room, flung the lid open with a bang, picked the trunk up by its bottom, and 468 emptied its contents on the floor.
Wang Shan-baos wife blushed scarlet with embarrassment.
Theres no cause to be angry with me, miss, she said.
Im not carrying this search out to please myself, Im here on Her Ladyships orders.
If you dont want your things to be searched, you have only to say so and I shall tell Her Ladyship.
Theres no need to carry on like this about it.
At this Skybrights wrath blazed up in fury.
She pointed at the old womans face.
You say you are here on Her Ladyships orders.
Well Im here on Her Old Ladyships orders.
Anyway, I thought I knew all the women who worked at Her Ladyships place and Im sure I never saw a self-important, meddlesome old busybody like you there before!
Xi-feng, who had now rejoined them, was secretly delighted to see Wang Shan-baos wife getting the rough side of Skybrights tongue, but because the woman was her mother-in-laws favourite, she had to pretend that she was shocked, and shouted at Skybright to be silent.
Wang Shan-baos wife looked angry and flustered and seemed on the point of retorting but Xi-feng restrained her.
All right, Mrs Wang, that will do.
You dont have to put yourself on the same level by arguing with the girl.
You get on with your searching.
Weve got all the other places to go to yet, and if we delay too long, word will get round that we are coming and they will be prepared for us.
If that happens and you dont succeed in finding anything, I shant consider myself responsible.
Though inwardly fuming, Wang Shan-baos wife was obliged to contain herself and spent the next minute or two rummaging tight-lipped among Skybrights possessions.
Having found nothing of importance, she then asked Xi-feng if they might go elsewhere.
Now have you looked really thoroughly?
said Xi-feng.
Youre going to look pretty silly if you have to report back to Lady Wang tomorrow that you couldnt find anything.
Weve been through everything, said one of the women.
Theres nothing here that there shouldnt be.
We did 469 find one or two boys things, but they were the sort of things a quite small boy would use.
Probably they belonged to Bao-yu when he was little.
Anyway, theyre of no consequence.
In that case we can be on our way, said Xi-feng, pleasantly.
On to the next place, then!
Off they went without more ado.
Xi-feng turned to Wang Shan-baos wife as they walked along for a word in her ear.
Ive got a suggestion to make, but I dont know whether youll agree to it or not.
Can we confine this search to members of our own household?
I dont think we ought to search the maids in Miss Xues room.
Oh, I quite agree, said Wang Shan-baos wife.
It would never do to go searching the rooms of our guests.
Xi-feng nodded.
-1094 Thats what I thought They had by now reached the Naiads House.
Dai-yu had already gone to bed when the arrival of all these people was announced.
Unable to guess what they could have come for, she was on the point of getting up to ask when Xi-feng came into her room and begged her to stay in bed.
Go to sleep.
We shall be gone again in a moment.
She slipped out again after a few inconsequences and rejoined the others, who had already begun their searching.
In the course of rummaging through the various trunks and boxes in Nightingales room they came across some old amulets whose period of effectiveness had long since expired and a set of two pouches and a fan-case designed for wearing on a belt.
The fan-case had a fan in it, which they took out to examine.
These were obviously masculine articles and had in fact been worn at one time by Bao-yu.
Wang Shan-baos wife, congratulating herself on what she took to be a significant discovery, called Xi-feng over to witness it.
Look at these things, Mrs Lian!
Now where would these have come from?
Xi-feng smiled.
These would be old things of Bao-yus, she said.
He and the girls here have been seeing each other for years - since they were little children.
Their Ladyships would probably 470 -1094 remember having seen these things on him.
You could always ask them, if you dont believe me.
Wang Shan-baos wife was at once all smiles.
If you recognize them, Mrs Lian, thats good enough for me.
Theres nothing here worth bothering about, said Xi-feng.
I think we should leave these folk in peace and hurry on elsewhere.
Weve had so many other things where these came from and given so many in return that I cant keep track of them, said Nightingale laughing.
I couldnt for the life of me tell you when he gave us these.
Xi-feng and Wang Shan-baos wife now conducted their little party to Tan-chuns place.
This time their arrival was anticipated.
Someone had brought w 9 rd of their coming, and Tan-chun, guessing that something serious must have happened to have provoked so ugly a reaction, was standing in the open doorway, surrounded by maids with lighted candles, waiting for the search party when it arrived.
Well?
she asked, somewhat challengingly.
What do you want?
Xi-feng smiled an emollient smile.
Something has been missing and they have been questioning everyone for several days now without being able to find out who took it.
Its thought that whoever is responsible for the theft might try to incriminate one of the maids.
We are making this search more for the sake of clearing them than because we really suspect any of them of taking it.
Naturally all my maids are thieves, said Tan-chun affably.
As a matter of fact, I am their principal fence.
If you want to search, youd better look at my cupboards and boxes first, because anything they steal is automatically handed over to me.
She ordered the maids to open all her boxes.
She also made them bring in her dressing-cases, jewel-boxes, bedding-rolls and miscellaneous wrapped-up bundles of clothing and open them all up for Xi-feng to inspect.
Xi-feng laughed uncomfortably.
Im only carrying out your mothers orders, coz.
Theres 471 no point in getting offended with me.
She turned to the servants.
Quickly, do these things up again for Miss Tan.
Scribe and Ebony, assisted by Patience and Felicity, began refastening the boxes and tying the bundles up again.
Ive said that you may search my things, said Tan-chun, but if you want to search my maids, Im afraid that wont be possible.
You see, I am a very hard mistress.
I always insist on knowing what my maids have got consequently everything they have - every needle and thread even - is taken care of by me I dont allow them to keep anything themselves.
So if you want to do any searching, you will have to search me.
If that doesnt satisfy you, you have only to report to Lady Wang that I was obstructive and I will gladly face whatever the consequences are tomorrow.
I must say, I cannot understand this eagerness to meet trouble half-way.
The searching will begin soon enough in this household when the day of confiscation arrives.
Didnt you hear the news this morning about the Zhens?
They tempted fate, just as we are now doing, by carrying out a quite unnecessary search of their own servants, and now there is a confiscation order against them and they are being searched themselves.
No doubt our time too is coming, slowly but surely.
A great household like ours is not destroyed in a day.
The beast with a thousand legs is a long time dying.
In order for the destruction to be complete, it has to begin from within.
She began to cry.
Xi-feng darted a look at the women, which Thou Ruis wife interpreted as a signal that they should go.
Since Miss Tan has said that the girls things are all here, Mrs Lian, cant we go on to another place now and leave her in peace?
Xi-feng responded by rising to her feet and wishing Tanchun good night.
Are you sure youve looked properly?
said Tan-chun.
Its no good coming back tomorrow and asking to look again, because I shant let you.
If all the maids things are in here, there is no need to look, said Xi-feng, smiling.
No need to look, when Ive gone to the trouble of having everything opened for you?
said Tan-chun coldly.
I call 472 -1094 that rather perverse.
Tomorrow I suppose you will say that I covered up for my maids and wouldnt let you look.
I want to be told in plain language that you have searched as much as you want to.
If you havent, youd better do so now, while you have the chance.
Xi-feng smiled.
She knew from past experience that she had to be more careful with Tan-chun than with any of the other girls.
I have already searched your maids things and your things sufficiently.
And what about the rest of you?
Tan-chun asked the women.
Weve searched enough, said Thou Ruis wife and the other women, smiling.
It was now that Wang Shan-baos wife showed her total lack of judgement - for she was in truth a very stupid woman.
She had heard something of Tan-chuns reputation in the past, but refused to believe that an unmarried girl of her years - particularly one who was a concubines daughter -could be as formidable as Tan-chun was said to be.
No doubt, she told herself, it was the inexperience or pusillanimity of her informants that made them think her so.
Was not she, Wang Shan-baos wife, one of Lady Xings oldest and most trusted servants?
Did not even Lady Wang have to show her a certain measure of deference?
A mere chit of a girl like Tan-chun was not going to intimidate her.
She had, in any case, the distinct impression that it was Xi-feng and not herself that Tan-chun was angry with.
At all events, she resolved to show how little she held Tan-chun in esteem by indulging in a little horse-play at her expense.
Going up to Tan-chun, she took hold of a corner of her jacket and turned it back, grinning all over her face.
There!
she said.
Now Ive even searched Miss Tan, and theres nothing on her either!
Xi-feng was shocked.
-294 Good gracious, woman!
Are you -?
But before she could finish there was a resounding smack!
-934 and a large red mark appeared on the old womans face where Tan-chun had hit her.
473 Tan-chun was in a towering rage.
Who do you think you are?
How dare you touch me?
It seems that the respect that I and the others show you, even though it is only for Her Ladyships sake and out of consideration for your age, merely encourages you to make mischief for us and abuse your borrowed powers.
That, in all conscience, is hard enough to bear.
But now, to lay hands on me - that is really too much!
If you have reckoned on my being a poor, timid creature like your Miss Ying whom you can bully and impose upon at your pleasure, you have made a very big mistake.
You may search my things if you wish and I shall not complain but I will not be made a laughing-stock.
Here!
- with one hand she began feverishly undoing her buttons, while with the other she pulled Xi-fengs hand towards her and placed it beneath her jacket Search me!
I would rather be searched by you than submit to being pawed over by a slave!
Xi-feng and Patience quickly buttoned her up again and straightened out her dress, shouting angrily at Wang Shanbaos wife as they did so.
You have been drinking again, Nannie.
Why do you do it, if it makes you behave so badly?
Youd better get out of here, before worse happens!
Patience did her best to comfort Tan-chun.
Dear miss!
Please dont distress yourself.
She isnt worth your getting upset about!
Tan-chun gave a humourless laugh.
Im not upset.
If Id been upset I should have beaten my brains out before Id have let her touch me.
I shall see Grandmother and Lady Wang about this first thing tomorrow, and after that I shall call on Lady Xing and make whatever amends she likes to ask for.
Wang Shan-baos wife had retreated hastily from the room after her discomfiture and was now lurking outside the window complaining bitterly of the outrage to her dignity.
This is the first time anyone has ever struck me.
I shall see Lady Xing tomorrow and ask her to let me go back to my old home.
If this is the way I am to be treated, I had rather not go on living!
474 Do you hear what that woman is saying?
Tan-chun asked her maids.
Are you waiting for me to go out there and argue with her myself?
Scribe, needing no second prompting, hurried outside to take up the cudgels for her mistress.
If I were in your shoes, Mrs Wang, I should have the sense to keep my mouth shut.
We should all be only too pleased if you really did go back to your own home but Im afraid that when it comes to it, you wont be able to tear yourself away.
After all, if yon go, who will there be left to worm her way into Her Ladyships confidence and make all our lives a misery by having searches made?
Xi-feng was greatly amused.
Good for Scribe!
Like mistress, like maid!
Oh, said Tan-chun coldly, we thieves have ready wits.
We are all capable of turning a phrase or two.
Its only when it comes to going behind other peoples backs and stirring those in authority up against them that we are not quite so clever.
Patience made some soothing remark to Tan-chun, simultaneously making a grab at Scribe and puffing her back into the room, while Zhou Ruis wife and the other women did their best to be conciliatory.
Xi-feng remained until she had seen Tan-chun safely put to bed before leading her party off in the direction of Xi-chuns Spring in Winter room in the Lotus Pavilion, briefly taking in Li Wans place on the way.
As Li Wan was unwell and had already taken her medicine and settled down for the night by the time they arrived, they went into the maids room straight away without disturbing her.
After searching each of the maids boxes in turn and finding nothing, they continued on their way to Xi-chuns apartment.
Being younger and more immature than the other cousins, Xi-chun was much more frightened by this visitation and at first seemed to be quite bewildered by it.
It took all of Xifengs efforts to calm her.
Unfortunately, while they were searching in Pictures trunk, they came upon a large packet containing thirty or forty silver medallions, a carved jade belt-buckle, a pair of mens boots and a pair of socks.
Even Xi-feng turned pale.
475 Where did these come from?
she asked the unhappy maid.
Picture knelt down and tearfully confessed the truth.
They were given to my brother by Mr Zhen, madam.
Since our parents went to live in the South, our uncle and aunt have been looking after us.
They both drink and gamble a lot, and my brother was afraid that if he left anything with them they would sell it and spend the money, so he made a secret arrangement with one of the old nannies to bring things in to me so that I could look after them for him.
Xi-chun, a naturally timorous child, was terrified by this discovery.
I knew nothing about this!
she cried.
It is very wicked of her.
If you want to beat her, cousin, please do it outside.
Im not used to hearing such things.
I think it would distress me.
Xi-feng smiled.
If what you say is true, she told Picture, you can be forgiven for looking after these things.
But your brother had no business to choose such a way of getting them in to you.
If these things could be smuggled in without anyone knowing, then so could anything else.
Its the person who brought them in who is the really guilty party.
Of course, if what you say is not true, you may as well give up hope of living!
I wouldnt dare lie to you, madam, said Picture, weeping.
You have only to ask Mr and Mrs Zhen.
If they say my brother wasnt given these things, I shant complain if you beat us both to death.
I shall certainly ask, said Xi-feng.
But even if he was given them, you are still to blame.
Who said that you could have things brought in to you secretly?
I shall let you off this once if you will tell me honestly who brought them in, but you mustnt ever do this again.
Dont let her off!
said Xi-chun.
There are so many maids.
If the older ones see her getting away with it, theres no knowing what they will get up to.
You may want to forgive her, but I dont.
She seems to me a pretty sensible girl as a rule, said Xifeng.
We all make mistakes sometimes.
Im only proposing 476 that we should let her off this once.
If she does anything like this again, we shall punish her for this offence as well.
-Come on now, what about this person who brought you the things?
she asked Picture.
Tell me who it was.
-1094 Oh, I can tell you that, said Xi-chun.
Its sure to have been that old Zhang woman from the rear gate.
Shes always around here, whispering guiltily to the maids and doing little favours for them - in return for which, of course, they give her their protection.
Xi-feng told one of the women to make a note of this.
The silver and the other things she gave to Zhou Ruis wife to take care of until Pictures statement about their provenance could be verified.
This old Mamma Zhang whom Xi-chun had named as the go-between who had brought things in for Pictures brother was a close kinswoman of Wang Shan-baos wife, being in fact the mother-in-law of one of her children.
However, since becoming Lady Xings chief confidante, Wang Shanbaos wife had had little time for kinsfolk or former colleagues, and her treatment of Mamma Zhang had caused that matron to take umbrage.
On two occasions there had been words between them, and for some time now the two of them had not been on speaking terms.
The satisfaction of learning that the guilty bearer of these objects was a hated enemy almost compensated Wang Shan-baos wife for the indignity of being slapped by Tan-chun and taunted by Tan-chuns maid.
She endeavoured to impress Xi-feng with the gravity of what they had discovered.
This smuggling is a very serious business, Mrs Lian.
No doubt the things we are looking for got into the Garden by the same way.
I think you ought to look into this.
I fully intend to do so, said Xi-feng.
I dont need you to tell me.
They took leave of Xi-chun then and made their way to Ying-chuns.
Ying-chun was asleep when they arrived and the maids had already gone to bed.
They had to knock a long while at the gate before anyone answered.
Theres no need to disturb your mistress, Xi-feng said to the girl who admitted them, and made straight for the maids 477 -1014 room, followed by the rest of the party.
Knowing that Wang Shan-baos wife was Chesss maternal grandmother, Xi-feng watched her very attentively to see if she would show any favouritism.
Wang Shan-baos wife began on the trunks of the other maids.
None of them contained anything of interest.
Coming to Chesss trunk last of all, she merely picked up one or two things lying on the top of it before hurriedly pronouncing that there was nothing there, and would have shut it up again if Zhou Ruis wife had not intervened to prevent her.
-1174 Now just a minute.
Whether there is or not, youve got to go through it properly, the same as you did the rest, out of fairness to the others.
-1094 She stretched her own hand out as she said this and, diving into the trunk, fetched out, successively, a pair of mens padded socks, a pair of mens satin slippers, and a packet containing a little Loving Couple ornament and a letter.
All these things she handed over to Xi-feng.
From handling so many bills, invoices and accounts during her years as a household manager, Xi-feng had learned to recognize quite a large number of characters and was able to make out the whole of the crude missive, written on pink Double Happiness notepaper, that Thou Ruis wife had just thrust into her hand.
Since your visit last month my parnts have fund out about us but cant do any thing til Miss Yings marrid if you can meet me in the garden send word by mrs Zhang we can talk more frely in the garden than at home PLEASE TRY I have reed the two rosearys I send you this bag it shows you what I dream of!!
PLEASE KEEP IT!!!
your loving kit cousin PAN YOUAN -1174 Xi-feng could hardly restrain herself from laughing out loud.
Wang Shan-baos wife knew nothing of the romantic history that lay behind this letter but she had already had an uncomfortable feeling that all was not well when she saw the mens socks and shoes and now, as she watched Xi-feng reading the words on the pink notepaper and laughing at what she read, she became even more apprehensive.
478 What is it, madam?
An account?
she said.
I suppose you are laughing because there is some mistake in it.
-1094 It certainly doesnt balance properly, said Xi-feng, laughing.
If you are Chesss grandmother, shouldnt her kit-cousin be a Wang?
Wang Shan-baos wife found the question a very strange one.
She has a kit-cousin on her fathers side, her fathers sisters son.
Pan You-an, that boy who ran away - hes her kit-cousin.
That makes sense, said Xi-feng.
Would you like me to read you the letter?
-1174 She proceeded to do so, to the great astonishment of all present.
Wang Shan-baos wife, who had sought out the wrongdoing of others with such single-minded persistency, was now mortified to discover that the only wrongdoer she had succeeded in unmasking was her own granddaughter.
-1094 Did you hear that, Mrs Wang?
said Thou Ruis wife, who, like the other women, had signalled her astonishment by sticking her tongue out and wagging her head incredulously.
Couldnt be clearer than that, could it?
No talking a way out of that one!
So what do we do now?
Wang Shan-baos wife heartily wished that it were possible to slip through some crack and disappear into the ground.
Xi-feng contemplated her for some moments with enjoyment, her lips puckered up with suppressed laughter.
One must look on the bright side, she said to Thou Ruis wife.
The girl has quietly gone off and chosen herself a husband.
At least her grandmother is saved the bother of choosing one for her!
Thou Ruis wife laughed, and added some pleasantry of her own.
Wang Shan-baos wife was left with no one but herself on whom to vent her anger, so she slapped her own face and reproached herself.
Silly old fool!
Youve lived too long, thats your trouble!
Look what youve brought on yourself!
Why couldnt you have kept your mouth shut?
Now youve got to suffer for your own foolishness.
The others had not the heart to laugh, but could not help 479 -1014 feeling pleased, either because she had made them suffer in the past and it was sweet to see her suffer now in her turn, or from a more detached belief that they were witnessing the working-out of divine retribution on one who had richly deserved its visitation.
Xi-feng noticed with surprise that Chess, who all this time had been standing by with bowed head, saying nothing, had no trace of fear or shame in her expression and wondered if she might be planning to make away with herself.
As it was obviously too late that night for questioning her, she deputed two of the women to watch over her until morning.
She herself went off with the other women, taking the things with her as evidence.
-1094 It was her intention to deal with the matter in the morning, after a nights sleep, but during the course of the night she was several times obliged to get out of bed, and each time she did so she found that she was losing blood.
By the time next morning came, she was too weak and dizzy to get up.
A doctor was called.
He took her pulses, wrote a prescription, and left, saying that she would need to rest.
His findings, reported to Lady Wang by the old nannies who went to have the prescription made up, plunged that already depressed gentlewoman into yet greater gloom.
Thus judgement on Chesss affair was, for the time being, postponed.
-1014 You-shi, as it happened, called in that day to see Xi-feng and sat for a while talking with her.
After that she went on to see Li Wan and talked with her.
While she was there, a maid arrived to ask if she would mind calling in to see Xi-chun, so she went along to Xi-chuns.
As soon as she arrived, Xi-chun launched into a long and detailed account of what had happened the previous night.
She also sent someone round to ask Thou Ruis wife for the things that had been found in Pictures trunk.
You-shi verified that they had indeed been given by Cousin Then to Pictures brother.
Stupid creature!
she said, turning to rebuke Picture, who was standing by.
Why do you call her names?
said Xi-chun.
It was your 480 laxness which made her the way she is.
Its too bad.
None of the other girls has been let down like this by her maids.
How shall I be able to face them after this?
I told Cousin Feng last night to take her away, but she wouldnt.
.1 am glad that you have come, because now you will be able to.
I dont care what you do with her - beat her, kill her, sell her - I just want to be rid of her.
Picture knelt down and implored her mistress most piteously not to send her away.
You-shi and Xi-chuns nurses also did their best to talk Xi-chun out of dismissing her.
It was only a single lapse on her part, said You-shi.
Im sure she wont do it again.
Think of all the years of service she has given you.
But Xi-chun, in whom the natural waywardness of youth was reinforced by a perverse contrariness that was all her own, remained adamant in the face of both argument and entreaty and insisted that Picture must go.
And it isnt only Picture that I dont want to see any more, she told You-shi.
The same goes for all the rest of you.
From now on I propose to stop going round to your place altogether.
There has been a lot of talk about you people of late.
If I continue to go round, lam afraid I might get involved in it.
Who has been talking about us?
said You-shi.
And what, pray, have they found to talk about?
I think you might begin by considering who you are - and who we are.
If you have heard people talking about us, I should have thought it was up to you to ask them what they meant by it.
Thats rather strange advice coming from you, said Xi- chun sneeringly.
A girl like me is supposed to keep well away from scandal, not go running headlong towards it.
You know the saying A father should help a son and the son his father, but not in slaying or in doing evil.
The same principle holds good for you arid me.
I can only answer for my own integrity.
If you people end up by getting your-selves into a mess, I dont want to have anything to do with it.
You-shi was half angered and half amused by her young sister-in-laws rudeness.
481 I can see now why people speak of Miss Xi as young for her age, she said, addressing the grown-up servants below the kang.
Young and foolish I have heard her called.
I used not to believe it of her, but finding her now so unreasonable and so lacking in any sense of proportion, I really do begin to despair of her.
She is still very young, said the women placatingly.
You must expect a few knocks in your dealings with her, Mrs Zhen.
I may be young, said Xi-chun scornfully, but there is nothing young about what I have just been saying.
And since none of you people can even read or write, how can you have the nerve to call me foolish?
-1094 You are the great scholar, of course, said You-shi sarcastically, the Top of the List candidate!
Stupid people like us cannot hope to compete with you in understanding.
Theres certainly not much understanding in what you have just said, Xi-chun retorted.
Your assumption that a Top of the List candidate cannot be stupid is a vulgar fallacy typical of the great mass of blind, undiscriminating worldlings.
A true sage can be identified by the very first step he takes, not by examination results.
Goodness!
said You-shi mockingly.
A moment ago we had the great scholar now, it seems, the great preacher has come to enlighten us!
I lay no claim to enlightenment, said Xi-chun, though I can see that most people are no better than Picture - and that they are as little worth bothering about.
You are a cold-hearted little monster, said You-shi.
If I seem cold, it is because I wish to keep myself uncorrupted, said Xi-chun.
Why should I want to get involved with you and allow myself to be dragged down to your level?
You-shi was highly sensitive to remarks about her familys reputation and had already been embarrassed and upset by Xi-chuns reference to people talking.
Because Xi-chun was only a girl, she had done her best not to lose her temper but this last remark was too much to stomach.
Unable to contain herself any longer, she burst out angrily.
What do you mean, dragged down to my level?
You 482 turn your maids offence into an occasion for making a completely unwarranted attack upon me, and when I bear your ridiculous attacks with patience, it seems merely t6 encourage you to indulge in further insults.
Very well, Miss Holy Purity!
I shall be careful to keep away from you in future, in case your priceless reputation is sullied by my presence.
She swept out angrily, indicating to her maids as she went that they should bring Picture with them.
It will be much better for all concerned if you dont ever come here again, Xi-chun called out alter her.
It will save a lot of argument.
You-shi heard this and grew even angrier but reflecting that Xi-chun was, however vexing, a young unmarried daughter of the family and therefore not a person with whom she could engage in open wrangling, she swallowed her anger and hurried off without answering, out of the Garden and into the inner part of the mansion.
What she heard there will be related in the chapter which follows.
CHAPTER 75 Midnight revellers are startled by a sound of evil omen And Mid-Autumn moon-watchers listen to quatrains of unequal merit When You-shi swept angrily out of Xi-chuns apartment, it had been her intention to visit Lady Wang, but one of the old women in her suite whispered in her ear to advise her against going there.
Some people from the Zhen family have just arrived there, madam, with a lot of things.
I think its something secret theyve come about.
It probably wouldnt be very convenient for you to go there now.
Thats funny, said You-shi.
I heard your master saying last night that he had read in the Gazette that the Zhens had been attainted.
It said that there was a search and confiscation order on their estate and that the family were being brought under arrest to the capital for questioning.
What can any of them be doing here?
You may well ask, madam.
It was some of the womenfolk we saw there.
They were in a terrible state, very worried and frightened.
I expect they are doing something they ought not to be.
You-shi abandoned her idea of visiting Lady Wang and went back to see Li Wan, with whom she had been talking a little earlier when Xi-chun called her away.
Li Wan had been visited in the meantime by her doctor and as she was feeling much livelier than she had done for some days, she had remained sitting up after her visit.
You-shi found her propped up on pillows and with the bedclothes pulled up round her, eager for conversation.
Unfortunately You-shi, who had been so affable on her earlier visit, was now in no mood to talk and sat at Li Wans bedside silent and preoccupied.
U Wan wondered if she was feeling hungry.
484 Have something to eat, she said.
What would you like?
She turned to Candida.
What nice little snack have we got that we could offer Mrs Zhen?
Please dont bother, said You-shi.
Youre hardly likely to have interesting snacks in the house after being an invalid for so many days.
And in any case Im not hungry.
Someone sent me some rather good wheatmeal tea yesterday, said Li Wan.
Why dont you try a bowl of that?
She told Candida to mix some for her with sugar and boiling water.
You-shi made no reply and continued to brood.
The women and maids who had come with her tried to think of some means of distracting her.
You havent done your face yet since this morning, madam, said one of them.
Why not take this opportunity of having a wash?
You-shi nodded.
Li Wan at once sent Candida for her dressing-case and mirror.
Candida offered You-shi the use of her own make-up.
Our mistress doesnt use make-up, Mrs Zhen.
If you dont mind using my stuff, youre very welcome to some of this.
Its true that I havent got any, said Li Wan, but you ought to have borrowed some from one of the young ladies to lend her.
Fancy offering her your own, and in front of everyone else!
Its a good job it was Mrs Zhen.
Some people would have been most offended.
Oh, thats all right, said You-shi, and began to wash.
The maid with the basin bent down to hold it out to her.
Where are your manners, girl?
said Li Wan reprovingly, whereupon the maid at once went down on her knees.
Manners!
said You-shi.
The outward frills of respectability!
Those are the things our servants are so good at.
What they actually get up to doesnt bear much investigating.
Li Wan realized that she must be referring to the events of the previous night.
Why do you say that?
she asked smilingly.
What has who got up to that doesnt bear investigating?
Need you ask?
said You-shi.
Youve not been so ill that youve lost the use of your faculties!
483 Before Li Wan could reply, Bao-chais arrival was announced.
Li Wan and You-shi both called out to her to come in.
You-shi, hurriedly wiping the water from her face, got up to welcome her and made her sit down with her at the side of the bed.
On your own?
she asked her.
Where are all the others?
I dont know, said Bao-chai.
I haven t seen them yet.
Mother isnt very well today, and as her two senior maids are also both ill in bed and I dont trust any of the others, I thought I had better go and stay with her for a few days.
At first I was going to tell Lady Jia and Aunt Wang, but then I thought that as this is rather a small matter and I shall in any case be coming back again as soon as Mother is better I wouldnt bother them but simply have a word about it with Cousin Wan.
Li Wan and You-shi exchanged smiles and glances.
Presently, when You-shi had finished her toilet, the three of them each had a bowl of wheatmeal tea.
I must send someone to see how your mother is and find out what she is suffering from, said Li Wan.
I cant go in person, unfortunately, because I am ill myself.
Dont worry about anything here.
Ill send someone to look after your apartment while you are away.
Do come back soon, though, or I shall be blamed for your going.
Whyever should you be?
said Bao-chai.
Theres nothing unusual about my going.
You are not being asked to connive at a gaol-break.
And incidentally, I dont see why it should be necessary to send anyone to my apartment.
Why not simply invite Cousin Shi to stay with you for a few days?
Wouldnt that be simpler?
While we are on the subject, where is Cousin Shi?
said You-shi.
I sent her off just now to look for Cousin Tan, said Baochai.
She was to bring Cousin Tan here so that I could explain to her about going to Mothers too.
By coincidence Miss Shi and Miss Tan were at that very moment announced.
As soon as they were seated, Bao-chai told Tan-chun about her intention of moving outside for a few days to look after her mother.
486 Very wise, said Tan-chun.
But why only stay outside until Aunt is better?
Why not move outside altogether?
Thats rather a strange way to talk, said You-shi, laughing.
Its as though you wanted to drive our kinswoman out.
Well, why not?
said Tan-chun bitterly.
Better be driven out now by me than by someone else later on.
Kinsfolk are lucky.
They dont have to stay here.
Not like the members of this happy family - all glaring at each other like angry fighting-cocks, wondering which will be the first one to strike!
You-shi laughed.
I think today must be my unlucky day.
I seem to have caught all you young ladies in a thoroughly unpleasant mood.
If you dont like the heat, you should stay away from the fire, said Tan-chun.
Whos been upsetting you then?
She thought for a bit.
Its not likely to have been Cousin Feng.
Not this time.
So who was it?
You-shis vague answer evaded the question.
Tan-chun knew that she was afraid to speak openly for fear of causing trouble.
Come on!
she said tauntingly.
Dont act the innocent!
Its not high treason to tell us.
No ones going to chop your head off.
Look at me.
Last night I slapped Wang Shan-baos wifes face.
Thats an offence deserving hard labour at the very least, yet nothings happened so far, bar a bit of muttering.
I dont think anyone is going to give me a beating.
Did you really slap her face?
Bao-chai asked incredulously.
Tan-chun treated them all to a lively account of what had happened, after which You-shi, seeing that there was no longer any point in concealment, proceeded to tell them about her recent encounter with Xi-chun.
Oh, shes always like that, said Tan-chun.
Its her nature.
Xi-chun is so peculiar, nothing the rest of us say or do is ever going to alter her.
By the way - she returned to the subject that was uppermost in her mind - I made some inquiries first thing this morning to find out why nothing was happening.
Apparently its because Cousin Feng is ill again.
I also sent someone to inquire about Wang Shan-baos wife.
It seems that she has been given a beating.
For interfering.
487 Quite right, too!
said You-shi and Li Wan.
But Tan-chun took a more cynical view.
It would be a comparatively easy way of disarming suspicion.
We must wait and see.
You-shi and Li Wan looked thoughtful, but neither made any comment.
Shortly after this the maids came in to say that dinner was ready.
Xiang-yun and Bao-chai went back to their apartment to pack, in preparation.
for their respective moves.
Our narrative leaves them at this point.
You-shi and Tan-chun, after taking their leave of Li Wan, made their way to Grandmother Jias apartment.
The old lady was reclining on her couch listening, while Lady Wang told her about the Zhens the offences they had been charged with, the confiscation of their property and their coming up to the capital now for questioning.
Grandmother Jia was obviously much shaken by what she heard, but brightened up somewhat when You-shi and Tan-chun arrived.
Where have you both come from?
she asked them.
I suppose you know that Feng and Wan are both ill now?
I wonder how they are today.
They are both a little better, said You-shi.
Grandmother Jia nodded and sighed.
I think weve heard enough about other peoples troubles for the time being.
Its time we started thinking about the arrangements for our Mid-Autumn party.
The catering arrangements have all been made, said Lady Wang.
It only remains for you to decide where you want it.
I suppose the nights are getting too chilly now for us to have it out in the Garden.
We can always put on a bit more clothing, said Grandmother Jia.
Of course we must have it in the Garden.
Thats what the Garden is for.
While they were speaking, some of the women came in carrying the dinner-table between them.
Lady Wang and You-shi laid chopsticks and carried in the rice.
When all was ready, Grandmother noticed that in addition to her own dishes there were two large food-boxes containing dishes from.
488 the other apartments.
It was a long-established custom that the occupants of other apartments should send her samples of what they were planning to eat that day themselves as a way of showing her their respect.
Ive told you all a number of times to stop doing this, she said.
Why wont you ever do as I say?
These are only very ordinary things here, said Lady Wang, referring to her own contribution.
Its one of my fast-days today, so I have only vegetarian dishes.
I know you dont much like bean-curd fried in batter, which is one of the things I am having.
The only thing of mine I think you might like is a salad pickle of chopped water-mallow in pepper sauce.
That sounds rather nice, said Grandmother Jia.
I think Id like to try some of that.
Faithful quickly took the saucer containing it out of the box and put it down in front of her.
Bao-qin, having first apologized to each of her seniors for sitting down in their presence, took her place at one side of the table.
Grandmother Jia said that Tan-chun should eat with her as well, whereupon Tan-chun too made her apologies and sat down.
She sat at the other side of the table opposite Bao-qin.
Scribe quickly fetched her a bowl and chopsticks.
Meanwhile Faithful was pointing out the other dishes to Grandmother Jia.
I cant make out what these two here are.
They are from Sir She.
The stuff in this bowl is creamed chicken and bamboo.
Its from Mr Zhen.
She brought the bowl of sliced bamboo-shoot over and put it down on the table.
Grandmother Jia made a couple of dips into it with her chopsticks.
She ordered all the 6ther dishes to be taken back to their senders.
Tell them thank you very much Ive tried some, but not to send things to me any more.
If I ever want anything, I shall let them know.
The women made some reply and went o ff with the boxes.
Now bring me my rice-gruel and Ill have a bit of that, said Grandmother Jia.
You-shi stepped forward with a bowl of gruel.
It was made with red Emperor rice, she told her.
After drinking 489 about half of it, Grandmother Jia ordered the other half to be taken to Xi-feng.
She pointed to one of the dishes.
And this is for Patience.
She turned to You-shi.
Ive finished.
Now you can eat.
Thank you, said You-shi, but waited all the same until the old lady had rinsed her mouth and washed her hands and was walking up and down on Lady Wangs arm for her digestion before she begged to be seated.
By this time Baoqin and Tan-chun had finished eating.
They got up as You-shi sat down, excusing themselves from keeping her company while she ate.
Oh, said You-shi, Im not used to eating at a big table like this all on my own.
Faithful and Amber can eat with you for company, said Grandmother Jia.
Good!
said You-shi.
I was about to suggest that.
I like to see people eating together, said Grandmother Jia.
She pointed to Butterfly.
Now heres a good girl.
Why shouldnt she eat with you as well?
Go on, child!
Go and eat with your mistress.
As long as you are here with me, it doesnt matter if you break the rules for once.
Come on!
said You-shi to the maid encouragingly.
Dont pretend to be bashful!
Grandmother Jia stopped walking up and down and stood with her hands clasped behind her back to watch them eat.
It suddenly struck her that the rice being served was the plain white rice normally eaten by the servants and that You-shi, too, was eating it.
Why are you giving Mrs Zhen this stuff?
she asked them.
There isnt any of Your Old Ladyships rice left, said the maids.
You had an extra young lady eating with you today, dont forget.
Meals are made to measure nowadays, said Faithful.
We cant afford to be extravagant the way we used to be.
There have been so many floods and droughts during the past few years, said Lady Wang.
Our farms havent been able to make up their quotas.
These special kinds of rice are particularly hard to come by.
We have had to start rationing them rather carefully.
490 Even the cleverest housewife cant make rice-gruel without rice.
Grandmother Jia quoted the proverb amidst general laughter.
Faithful turned to address the women waiting outside the door.
If Her Old Ladyships rice is all finished, you can get the rice that Miss Tan would have eaten if she hadnt been eating with us and bring it here for Mrs Zhen.
No need, said You-shi.
What Ive got here is quite enough for me.
I dare say it is, said Faithful, but what about me?
The women hurried off to fetch the rice.
Presently Lady Wang went off to have dinner in her own apartment, leaving You-shi to entertain Grandmother Jia.
The time passed quickly, with much good-humoured teasing and laughter, and the first watch had already begun before Grandmother Jia noticed how late it was getting.
Youd better be getting back now, she told You-shi.
You-shi took her leave.
Outside the inner gate she got into her waiting carriage.
Her women pulled the blind down, then, taking all the maids with them except Butterfly, who was riding in the carriage with her mistress, hurried on ahead so that they could be waiting for You-shi when she arrived in the other mansion.
The men from both gates walked some way along the street to keep it clear of pedestrians while six or seven pages pushed and pulled the carriage it seemed too short a distance and too late an hour for mules as far as the interior of the Ning-guo gateway.
There the pages retired, old w6men came forward and raised the blind, and Butterfly dismounted and helped out her mistress.
You-shi noticed that there were four or five large carriages waiting below the stone lions which flanked the gate and commented to Butterfly on their presence.
I wonder how many horses there are in the stables?
If this number came by carriage, you may be sure that a much greater number will have come on horseback.
As she and Butterfly entered the outer courtyard, Jia Rongs wife at the head of a party of maids and older women carrying lanterns advanced to meet them.
491 Ive been dying for I dont know how long to have a look at the men while they are gambling, said You-shi, but so far I havent had an opportunity.
Tonight is the best chance I shall ever get.
Lets go along the wall in front of the windows so that we can peep in at them.
The women with lanterns made a detour towards the building in which the men were congregated.
One of them went ahead and warned the pages waiting outside not to announce their arrival to the men or make any other noise that would warn those inside of their coming.
You-shi and her party were thus able to steal right up to the windows and could hear everything that was going on inside.
Among the medley of sounds that met their ears, numbers seemed to predominate, some uttered exultantly and with raucous shouts of laughter, others angrily or despairingly and to the accompaniment of curses and profanities.
Cousin Zhen had found the ban on amusements during the seemingly interminable period of mourning for Jia Jing which convention imposed on him extremely irksome.
Archery, for some reason, was permitted, and a few months previously he had hit on archery as a means of getting round the ban.
A number of young men from the wealthy and aristocratic households of his acquaintance were invited round to the Ning-guo mansion to participate.
Shooting was to be competitive.
Random shooting is quite useless, he explained to them.
You not only dont make any progress it actually spoils your form.
Youve got to have incentives of some kind to keep you on your toes., and the best way of doing that is to bet on something.
Butts were set up in the shooting gallery below the Celestial Fragrance Pavilion and every day after lunch the young men came along to compete.
Since, as Bereaved Son, it would have been unseemly for Cousin Zhen himself to have been named in this connection, the nominal convenor and Organizer of these gatherings was Jia Rong.
All those invited were rich, profligate, dashing young fellows, accustomed to spending their time in cock-fighting, dog-racing and even more questionable amusements.
After some discussion it was 492 decided that the responsibility for providing dinner after the days archery should fall to each one of them in turn.
It became a point of honour to make these dinners as lavish as possible, so that the daily junketings at Ning-guo House came more and more to resemble the Diet of Lintong in the well-known play of that name, except that whereas Duke Mus princely guests competed in the bravery of their cornmanders and the magnificence of their regalia, it was in the skill of their chefs and in masterpieces of culinary art that the members of the Ning-guo archery club strove to outdo each other.
When this had been going on for a couple of weeks or so, Jia Zheng and Jia She got to hear about it.
The report that reached them cannot have been a very accurate one, however, for, far from being critical of these goings-on, they spoke of them with approval.
Since Rong obviously has no aptitude for book-learning, Jia Zheng observed, Cousin Zhen does right to encourage him in the martial arts.
The boy does, after all, hold a military commission.
They even made Bao-yu, Jia Huan, Jia Cong and Jia Lan participate.
The four of them had to go over every day after lunch and not return until each of them had taken his turn at the butts.
But it was not of course in the archery that Cousin Zhen was interested.
On the grounds that resting the muscles was an important part of ones training, he was soon advocating a little cards or dice in the evenings as a means of relaxation.
At first they played only for drinks, but soon they were playing more and more for money the time spent on gaming gradually encroached on the time devoted to archery betting became more open and finally, with the formal opening of a bank some three or four months previously, regular, organized gambling for heavy stakes had become a daily routine.
The Ning-guo servants, who grew fat on the pickings, were delighted with these new arrangements and, anxious that they should go on, if possible, for ever, took very good care that no one outside the mansion should get to hear about them.
493 Lady Xings brother, Xing De-quan, himself a keen gambler, had lately become a frequenter of this establishment so, inevitably, had Xue Pan, who was never so happy as when he was throwing away his money.
Xing De-quan was very unlike his sister.
Drinking, gambling and debauchery were his only interests consequently whenever any money came into his hands, he spent it like water.
The singular obtuseness he showed in all his dealings had earned him the nickname of Uncle Dumbo.
And since Xue Pan was already known to all and sundry as the Oaf King , the two of them when they were together were referred to by the young men as Uncle Dumbo and Cousin Oaf.
The situation when You-shi peeped inside was as follows.
Cousin Oaf and Uncle Dumbo, each with a partner, were playing six-dice Grabs on the kang in the outer room.
Simultaneously another dicing game, Driving the Sheep, was being played by several players sitting round a large table on the floor below.
The inner room, where a slightly more intellectual group were playing Tin Kau, was devoted to dominoes.
The servants were all pages of fifteen or under.
There was also a pair of male prostitutes, powdered, over-dressed youths of seventeen or eighteen, whose duty was to ply the guests with drink.
It was this pair who first caught You-shis eye when she looked in.
Xue Pan had been having the sulks earlier on because he was losing, but then his luck had changed he had not only recouped his losses but made a lot of extra money.
He was therefore in a very good mood indeed.
Cousin Zhen suggested that this might be a good point at which to stop and have dinner.
They could go on playing afterwards if they wanted to.
What about the two other lots?
he inquired.
It transpired that the Tin Kau players in the next room were in process of settling up after finishing the game and were in fact beginning to think about their dinner, but that the group at the big table playing Driving the Sheep had not yet reached a suitable point at which to break off.
Cousin Zhen ordered dinner to be served for all those, himself 494 included, who were ready.
Jia Rong was to wait and have dinner with the other players when they had finished.
Xue Pan, elated by his success, sat with a cup of wine in one hand and his arm round the shoulders of one of the pretty pot-boys.
With a victors expansive generosity he ordered the other boy to pour some wine with his compliments for Uncle Dumbo.
But Uncle Dumbo was thoroughly out of temper at having lost the game, and the two cupfuls he drank now in rapid succession served merely to make him tipsily aggressive.
He vented his anger on the two young ganymedes, who, he claimed, had treacherously withdrawn their favours from him and transferred them to the winner.
Heartless brood of unnatural little whores gits!
he grumbled.
Youve had plenty of favours off me in the past -and off everyone else here.
Now, just because Ive lost a few taels, Im not good enough for you.
What makes you so certain you wont ever need my help again in the future?
The other guests all knew that he was drunk.
Those of them who were losers themselves smiled wryly and said nothing, but one or two of the winners magnanimously expressed their sympathy.
Thats right, Uncle.
Rotten little bastards!
Thats just the way they do behave.
Why dont you pour Uncle a drink and tell him youre sorry?
said another of them.
The two young ganymedes, practised professionals in every trick of the trade, were on their knees at Uncle Dumbos side in a moment, offering him wine, fondling his thigh, and gazing with simpering archness into his eyes.
Dont be angry with us, dear old friend.
We are only children.
We have to do as we are told.
Our teacher always tells us, It doesnt matter what they are like or what your own feelings are, the person who at any moment has the most money is the one you must be nice to.
Just win a lot of money later on this evening, old friend, and youll see how nice we shall be to you!
The disarming frankness of this made everyone laugh.
Even Uncle Dumbo, though he tried hard not to, was forced to join in.
495 All right, I forgive you, he growled as he took the proffered winecup.
Though I dont mind telling you, if I hadnt been so fond of you two, Id have kicked the stuffing Out of your little tum-tums!
He shot his foot up as he said this, by way of demonstration.
The two boys scrambled to their feet in mock alarm.
Each of them carried a long womans handkerchief of flowered silk.
With mincing gestures, still holding their handkerchiefs in their hands, they guided the winecup towards his lips.
Uncle Dumbos loud gurgles of delight were briefly interrupted while he threw his head back and drained the cup.
Then, still laughing, he pinched their cheeks.
Little dears!
he said.
How I loves them!
His mood changed abruptly as he remembered a grievance.
He smote the table angrily and glared at Cousin Zhen.
I had a quarrel with your Uncle Shes wife yesterday, did you know that?
With Aunt Xing?
said Cousin Zhen.
No, I hadnt heard that.
Uncle Dumbo sighed self-pityingly.
About damned money, as usual.
You dont know the hist6ry of our Xing family, dear boy.
When my old mother died, I was still too young to know what was going on.
I have three elder sisters.
The eldest is your precious aunt.
When your aunt married, she took everything we had with her.
Everything.
My second sister had to marry without a dowry.
She and her husband are paupers.
My third sister is still unmarried.
She lives on a pittance paid out to her by that old bitch, Wang Shan-baos wife, who has charge of all our money.
Well, I went along yesterday to ask her for a few coppers.
Not Jia money, mind you our Xing money is good enough for me.
But would she give me any?
Not she!
And thats the reason why I get treated by you lot like a poor relation.
Cousin Zhen knew that he was drunk, but as it was embarrassing that these unsavoury details of family history should be paraded in front of outsiders, he did his best to mollify Uncle Dumbo and get him onto another tack.
All this was clearly audible to You-shi outside.
Did you hear that?
she whispered to Butterfly, who was 496 standing beside her.
Thats Lady.Xing theyre talking about.
If her own brother talks about her in that way, you can hardly wonder that other people complain about her.
She would have said more, but checked herself in order to attend to what was going on inside.
The group playing Driving the Sheep had now broken off and were calling for wine.
Who was upsetting Uncle Dumbo just now?
asked one of them.
We couldnt quite catch what it was about.
Tell us what happened, Uncle, and well see you get fair play.
Uncle Dumbo proceeded to tell them how the two boys had forsaken him because he had no money.
Good grief!
said the young man who had asked the question.
I dont blame you for being angry - What do you mean by it?
he asked the boys.
Hes only lost a bit of money, hasnt he?
He hasnt lost his prick!
The company roared with laughter.
Uncle Dumbos mouthful of rice was spattered over half the floor.
You dirty bugger!
he said.
Cant you open your mouth without being crude?
You-shi gave a little snort of disgust.
Just listen to those animals!
By the time theyve swilled a few more cups of wine, heaven knows what filth theyll be coming out with!
She moved on her way - having seen and heard quite as much as she wanted to - returned to her apartment, undressed, and went to bed Cousin Zhen did not get to bed until after two.
He spent what remained of the night in Loveys room.
As soon as he was up next morning, someone came in with a message to say that the melons and mooncakes he had ordered were now ready and it only remained for him to say who they were to be sent to.
Ask your mistress to see to it, said Cousin Zhen.
I have got other business to attend to.
Lovey took this message to You-shi, who proceeded to go through the list deciding how much should go to whom and making arrangements for the delivery.
She had barely finished doing this when Lovey came back again with another message.
497 The master wants to know if you are going out today, madam.
He says we can t keep Mid-Autumn properly on the fifteenth because we are in mourning still, but there would be no harm in having a little family party tonight.
I dont want to go out, said You-shi, but with Mrs Zhu and Mrs Lian both ill in bed, I dont see how I can refuse to go next door and lend a hand.
The master says, if you have to go out, will you at any rate try to get back as early as you can?
said Lovey.
Better hurry up with the lunch then, said You-shi.
The sooner I can get away, the sooner Ill be back.
The masters having lunch in the front today, madam.
He says please have your lunch here without him.
Whos he got there?
said You-shi.
Somebody told me its two people just arrived from Nan-king, said Lovey, but I dont know who they are.
Jia Rongs wife came in while Lovey was talking.
Shortly after that lunch was served.
After lunch, You-shi changed into her going-out clothes and went over to Rong-guo House.
She did not return until evening.
While she was away, Cousin Zhen went ahead with arrangements for an intimate family party.
He.
had a whole pig boiled, a whole sheep roasted, and an infinite number of vegetable dishes and entremets prepared.
When You-shi got back that evening, he conducted her and the little concubines and Jia Rong and Jia Rongs wife to the Bosky Verdure Pavilion where it was all laid out.
This was in the All-Scents Garden, as they continued to call the little remnant still left them after the main part was.
incorporated in Prospect Garden.
They had dinner first.
The wine was brought in after they had finished eating, so that they could apply themselves single-mindedly to games and mirth and the enjoyment of the Mid-Autumn moon, which now for by this time it was already the beginning of the first watch shone brightly in a clear, fresh sky, filling the world above and below with its silver light.
Cousin Zhen invited the four little concubines to sit at the same table as him and You-shi and join with them in games of Plumstones and Guess-fingers.
Presently for 498 the drink was beginning to make him sentimental - he called to them for some music, and Flower sang for them in a clear, sweet voice, accompanied by Lovey on the vertical bamboo flute.
Everyone was deeply moved by the performance.
After it was over the games continued.
The hours slipped by.
Soon it was nearly midnight.
Cousin Zhen was by now more than a little drunk.
They had all just put on some extra clothes and had some hot tea the wine-cups had been cleared and clean ones put in their place and a fresh lot of newly heated wine was just being poured, when suddenly a long-drawn-out sigh was heard from the foot of one of the garden walls.
It was heard by all of them, quite clearly and unmistakably, and they could feel the hair on their scalps rise as they listened to it.
Whos there?
Cousin Zhen shouted in a voice that he tried to make fierce and challenging.
But though he repeated the question several times, there was no reply.
Its probably one of the servants, said You-shi.
Nonsense!
snapped Cousin Zhen.
There are no servants living behind any of these walls.
In any case, thats the Hall of the Ancestors over there.
What would anyone be doing behind that wall?
A rustle of wind passed, at that very moment, along the foot of it and a distant sound like the opening and closing of a door could be heard from inside the ancestral temple.
An oppressive feeling of dread came over them the night air seemed suddenly to have grown colder the moon appeared less bright than it had been a few minutes before and they could feel their skins crawling with terror.
Shock had made Cousin Zhen almost sober but though he managed to keep better control of himself than the others, he was very much shaken and had lost all appetite for enjoyment.
Nevertheless he forced himself and the others to sit a little longer before retiring finally to bed.
He rose quite early next morning.
It was the fifteenth, one of the two days in each month on which offerings have to be made to the ancestors.
Entering the ancestral temple with the other male members of the family, he took the opportunity of looking round inside it very carefully but everything 499 was as it should be there was no sign whatever of anything untoward having happened.
He put down the previous nights terror to the effects of drunkenness - a mild attack of the horrors - and resolved to make no further mention of it.
When the service was over, he shut the temple up again and made sure that the doors were securely locked and barred.
After dinner that evening Cousin Zhen went over with You-shi to Rong-guo House.
He found Jia She and Jia Zheng in Grandmother Jias room.
The two of them were sitting on the kang, talking and laughing with the old lady, while Jia Lian, Bao-yu, Jian Huan and Jia Lan stood on the floor below.
After greeting them and exchanging a word or two with each of them in turn, he sat, or rather half-sat, in polite discomfort, on a stool next to the door.
Grandmother Jia vouchsafed a gracious smile in his direction.
How is your Cousin Baos archery these days?
Cousin Zhen jumped to his feet to reply.
Greatly improved, Lady Jia.
It isnt only his form that is better he is beginning to handle the bow with much greater strength.
Thats the point at which to stop then, said Grandmother Jia.
We dont want him straining himself.
No, no, certainly not, said Cousin Zhen.
I quite agree.
Those mooncakes you sent yesterday were very good, said Grandmother Jia.
The melons looked all right, but theres not much inside them when you cut them open.
Those mooncakes are good, arent they?
said Cousin Zhen.
They were made by our new pastry-cook.
I tried them myself to make sure they were all right before venturing to send you any.
As for the melons weve been lucky in previous years, but for some reason none of them this year seem to be any good.
I think we must blame the weather, said Jia Zheng.
The rains this year were excessive.
The moon must be up by now, said Grandmother Jia.
Lets go and make our Mid-Autumn offering.
She got up and, leaning on Bao-yus shoulder, led the way 500 into the Garden.
The main gate was wide open and hung with great horn lanterns.
When they reached Prospect Hall, they found servants with lighted lamps waiting for them on the terrace and a table on which incense smoked in a square container and on which offerings of melons and other fruit and mooncakes had been set out on dishes.
Lady Xing and all the other female members of the family were waiting inside the hall.
Moonlight and lanterns gleaming pale Through a thin aromatic veil It was indeed a scene of indescribable beauty.
A carpet for kneeling on had been laid on the terrace at the foot of the table on the side nearest the hall.
Grandmother Jia washed her hands, lit some sticks of incense, knelt down on the carpet, bowed down, and offered up the incense.
The others followed her example.
The best place for enjoying the moon from is the top of a hill, she told them when they had finished.
She suggested the pavilion on the summit of the master mountain behind Reunion Palace of which Prospect Hall was a part as the place to have their party.
The servants at once went off to make it ready.
Meanwhile Grandmother Jia sat talking with the others inside Prospect Hall, resting and drinking tea.
Presently the servants came back to report that the mountain-top pavilion was now ready.
The old lady stood up again and, supported on either side by her maids, prepared to make the ascent.
Im afraid the moss on the steps might make them rather slippery, said Lady Wang.
Wouldnt it be better if you went up in a chair?
The servants sweep them every day, said Grandmother Jia.
How can there be any moss?
They are good, level steps and not too steep.
The exercise will be good for me.
Jia She and Jia Zheng led the way, followed by a couple of old women with horn lanterns.
Faithful, Amber and You-shi supported the old lady on either side, and Lady Xing, Lady Wang and all the others followed in a dose procession behind.
501 It was only a hundred or so steps up the zig-zag path to the summit.
The pavilion was a rectangular building with one completely open side looking onto a terrace.
Because it was situated on the convex grassy summit of the little mountain, it was called Convex Pavilion.
Two tables with chairs round them had been set out on the terrace, separated from each other by a large screen.
The tables and chairs, like the moon and melons and mooncakes, were all round, in honour of the occasion.
Grandmother Jia sat at the head of one of the tables with Jia She, Cousin Zhen, Jia Lian and Jia Rong on her left hand and Jia Zheng, Bao-yu, Jia Huan and Jia Lan on her right.
Between them they filled only about half the places round the table.
I never felt in the past on these occasions that we were a small family, Grandmother Jia commented.
Looking at us today, though, I must say we do make a very miserable turnout.
I can remember Mid-Autumns when there were thirty or forty of us sitting down together.
Ah, what times we had then!
We shant ever have numbers like that again.
Lets have the girls to sit with us.
See if we cant fill up that gap!
Someone went over to the table presided over by Lady Xing on the other side of the screen to fetch Ying-chun, Tanchun and Xi-chun.
Jia Lian, Jia Rong, Bao-yu and the other boys got up while the chairs were rearranged and the girls were installed at the table.
Then they reseated themselves in their proper order, Jia Lian and Jia Rong with Ying-chun and Xi-chun between them, and Bao-yu and Jia Huan on either side of Tan-chum.
Grandmother Jia asked someone to fetch a spray of cassia and made one of the women sit behind the screen and drum for them, so that they could play Passing the Branch.
Anyone whose hand the branch was in when the drumming stopped had first to drink a cup of wine and then tell a funny story.
The drumming started and the branch passed from Grandmother Jia to Jia She and so on round the table.
It stopped just as the branch had reached Jia Zhengs hand on its second time round.
He raised the winecup to his lips to the accompaniment of much secret nudging and pinching among the 502 younger folk, to whom the notion of Jia Zheng telling a joke was in itself unbelievably funny.
Jia Zheng could see how much the old lady was enjoying herself and was anxious not to spoil her pleasure.
Before he could begin his story, however, she saw fit to give him notice that he must expect to be punished if he did not make her laugh.
I can only think of one joke, said Jia Zheng.
If you dont find it amusing, you will just have to punish me.
Very well, tell us your one joke then, said Grandmother Jia.
It is about a hen-pecked husband, said Jia Zheng.
He got no further.
Already his audience were convulsed.
It was not that what he had said was the least bit funny, simply that they had never heard him talking about such things before.
This is sure to be good, said Grandmother Jia.
In that case, said Jia Zheng, laughing himself, let me persuade you to drink a cup of wine.
Very well, said Grandmother Jia.
At once Jia She and Jia Zheng rose to their feet.
Jia She held a winecup in both his hands while Jia Zheng poured wine into it from a wine-kettle.
Then Jia Zheng took the cup from Jia She and ceremoniously set it down in front of Grandmother Jia.
The two men stood in stiffly deferential attitudes beside her while she drank some, then, having completed their little pantomime, resumed their places.
Jia Zheng proceeded with his story.
This hen-pecked husband was so afraid of his wife that he never dared stay long away from the house.
But one Mid-Autumn Festival he chanced to be out shopping in the street when a friend caught sight of him and insisted on dragging him off to his house for a drink.
Without meaning to, the husband became very drunk - so much so that he had to stay at his friends house for the night.
When he woke up the next morning, he was full of remorse.
However, there was nothing for it but to hurry back home and apologize.
When he got back, his wife was washing her feet.
Very well, she said when he had finished apologizing, if you will lick my feet clean, I will forgive you.
503 The man began to lick, but a feeling of nausea overcame him and.
he showed signs of wanting to be sick.
When his wife saw this, she was furious.
How dare you?
she screamed, and looked as if she was about to give him a beating.
The husband knelt down in terror and begged to be forgiven.
Please, my dear!
It isnt that I find your feet in the least distasteful.
Its just that I drank rather a lot of yellow wine last night and ate lots of very rich mooncakes, so today I am feeling a little queasy .
Grandmother Jia and the rest all laughed and Jia Zheng poured Grandmother Jia another cup of wine.
Someone had better change this yellow wine for samshoo, she said.
We dont want you husbands having this sort of trouble with your wives tomorrow!
This produced another laugh.
The drumming recommenced and the branch, starting from Jia Theng, began circulating again.
This time it stopped with Bao-yu.
Bao-yu had been feeling uncomfortable to start with because of Jia Zhengs presence, but became ten times more so when he found himself stuck with the branch.
If I tell a joke and its no good, he thought, he will say Ive no invention.
But if I tell a good one, hell say I have no aptitude for serious things, only frivolous ones, and that will be even worse.
Id much better not tell one at all.
Having reached this decision, he stood up and asked his father to excuse him.
Im sorry, he said, I cant tell jokes.
May I do something else, please?
You may compose a poem on the theme of Mid-Autumn Moon, said Jia Zheng.
If it is good, I shall reward you if it is not - I shall deal with you tomorrow.
This is a game we are playing, said Grandmother Jia testily.
Do you have to make the boy write poetry?
He can do it if he wants to, said Jia Zheng.
He was smiling.
Very well, let him do it then, said Grandmother Jia.
Fetch him a brush and.
paper somebody.
504 No padding, now!
Jia Zheng told Bao-yu.
No crystal, ice, jade, silver, light, bright, white - anything of that sort.
I want something original that will give me some idea of what you have been doing with your mind during this past year or two.
Bao-yu found these injunctions by no means uncongenial, and having succeeded, in quite a short time, in thinking of a quatrain, he wrote it out and handed it to his father.
Jia Zheng said nothing, but was observed to nod after he had finished reading it which Grandmother Jia interpreted to mean that he could not have found the poem too bad.
Well?
she asked him.
Jia Zheng wanted to make her happy.
Not at all bad, he said.
Its a pity he wont study, but his verses are really quite elegant.
Well, thats all right then, said Grandmother Jia.
You ought to encourage the boy, so that next time he tries even harder.
You are quite right, said Jia Zheng.
He turned to one of the old women in attendance.
Tell my boys to get out two of the fans I brought back with me from the South, will you, and give them to Bao-yu for me.
Bao-yu came forward and kotowed.
After he had gone back to his seat, the game continued.
This time the branch stopped in Jia Shes hand.
He drank his wine and then told the following story.
This one is about a dutiful son whose mother was ill.
He tried everywhere to get a doctor for her, but couldnt find one, so in the end he was reduced to calling in an old woman who practised acupuncture.
Now this old dame knew nothing of physiology, nevertheless she assured the son that it was inflammation of the heart that his mother was suffering from and that she could cure it instantly with her needle.
The son became very alarmed.
If metal in any form comes into contact with the heart, he said, it means death.
Surely youre not going to put a needle in her heart?
No, no, I shant put it in the heart, said the old woman.
I mean to put it in here, over the ribs.
505 But thats too far from the heart, said the son.
Surely if you put it in there, it wont do any good?
Oh yes it will, said the old woman.
A mothers heart always inclines towards one side.
The others all laughed, and Grandmother Jia was persuaded to drink another half cup of wine.
After a long pause she said somewhat wryly, Perhaps I could do with a bit of the old dames acupuncture myself.
Jia She realized, too late, that his somewhat tactless choice of story could be interpreted as a criticism of his own mother.
Hurriedly rising to his feet, he held up his cup to toast her with and did what he could to change the subject.
Fortunately the old lady made no further reference to his gaffe and the game soon continued.
This time the branch stopped with Jia Huan.
Jia Huan had lately been making modest progress in his studies.
He was even beginning to show a certain interest in verse, though his tastes in it were decidedly peculiar.
When Bao-yus poem was praised earlier on, he had been dying to demonstrate his own talent, but had not dared risk the charge of showing off in his fathers presence.
Now that the luck of the game had given him free licence, he called for paper and writing-brush and, in a matter of moments, wrote out a quatrain which he handed to his father.
Jia Zheng was not impressed.
It was a somewhat weird little poem, and whatever advances Jia Huan might lately have made in his schoolwork, they certainly did not reveal themselves in his choice of words.
It is easy to see that you and Bao-yu are brothers, said Jia Zheng.
Whether in your ideas or the language you express them in, you show the same distaste for sound classical models.
The Two Incomparables we should call you, not because you are incomparable in virtue like Chen Yuan-fang and his brother, but because you are incomparably hard to knock any sense into though whereas Bao-yu seems to think that he has inherited the mantle of the Airy Fairy school and fancies himself as a second Wen Ting-yun, you apparently prefer the Spooks and Spectres style of poetry and see yourself as a latter-day Cao Tang.
506 This not because anyone understood it, but because it sounded funny provoked general laughter.
Let me see that poem, said Jia She.
He took it from Jia Zheng and almost immediately began praising it.
I like this poem, its got guts in it.
Boys from families like ours dont need to read themselves half blind in order to get started on a career.
Provided theyve read enough to show that they are better educated than the rabble and are capable of holding down a job, they can hardly fail to get on.
Why waste a lot of time and energy on turning the boy into a book-worm?
What I like about this poem is that it is just the sort of good amateur, not-too-brainy poem youd expect a young chap of our class to write.
He sent someone to fetch various objects of his to give to Jia Huan as a reward and smilingly patted him on the head.
You go on writing poems like this, young fellow!
Well have no trouble getting you a posting when the time comes, dont you worry!
Jia Zheng protested.
Whatever you think of the poem, it hardly justifies talking in this way about the boys future.
Meanwhile the servants had begun pouring more wine so that the game could continue but Grandmother Jia intervened.
Why dont you two go now?
Im sure your gentlemen must be waiting for you, and it would be discourteous to neglect them.
Besides, it must be all often oclock and if you go now it will give the children a chance to enjoy themselves unconstrainedly for a while before they go to bed.
The two brothers at once got up to go, and after a parting cup offered to them on behalf of all the rest, they went off, taking Cousin Zhen and Jia Lian with them, but leaving Baoyu and the two younger boys with the womenfolk.
What happened after their departure will be related in the following chapter.
CHAPTER 76 Flute-playing at Convex Pavilion provokes too much melancholy And linked verses at Concave Pavilion betray a morbid sensitivity After Jia She and Jia Zheng had left, taking the two younger men with them, Grandmother Jia had the screen removed and proposed that those sitting at both tables should combine to make a single party.
The serving-women cleared and wiped the table, replenished and replaced the plates of foodstuff, and set out clean winecups and chopsticks.
While they were doing this, Grandmother Jia and the other members of the family were putting on more clothing, washing their hands rinsing their mouths out, and drinking tea.
When all was ready they arranged themselves round the one table.
As they did so, Grandmother Jia noticed, for the first time that evening, that Bao-chai and Bao-qin were not there.
With Li Wan and Xi-feng also away ill, the family gathering seemed sadly depleted.
She commented on this fact to Lady Wang.
In past years, when Sir Zheng was away, we invited your sister to enjoy the Mid-Autumn moon with us.
To be sure, we had some very happy times with her, but the recollection that one of our dear ones was missing - in my case a son, in yours a husband, in the childrens a father somewhat dampened our enjoyment.
This year, now that he is back, I was looking forward to a really jolly family party but now, unfortunately, its your sister and her children who cant be with us.
Well, I suppose as shes got two more members of her family with her this year we could hardly expect her to leave them behind and come over here simply to keep me amused.
But what a pity that Feng should have chosen this time to be ill!
She is always such a tonic as good as ten other people at a party!
It only goes to show.
One cant have everything.
508 She sighed.
Fetch me a bigger cup, she said presently, and pour me some good hot wine.
Lady Wang smiled.
You have both your sons with you this year, Mother.
Surely that is a gain?
There may have been more females present in previous years, but surely having all your own children about you is better?
Yes, yes, of course it is, said Grandmother Jia.
I am happy.
That is why I have asked for a larger cup.
You must all have larger cups too., It was getting very late now and the other ladles had no real inclination for carousing but as Grandmother Jia showed no signs of flagging, they were obliged to keep her company.
The effect of forcing themselves to drink with her was that they became unbearably sleepy.
Grandmother Jia called for a carpet to be spread out at the top of the terrace steps.
The remaining mooncakes, melons and other eatables were carried over there and the maids and womenservants invited to sit round in a big circle, eating them and enjoying the moon.
Grandmother Jia, too, looked up at the moon.
It had now reached its meridian and was even clearer and more beautiful than it had been earlier in the evening.
To get full enjoyment of so fine a moon, she said, the music of a flute is indispensable.
She had the girls of the familys little ten-piece orchestra summoned but when they arrived, they were informed that not all of them would be required to play.
Too much sound would spoil the effect, she said.
The flute on its own will be enough.
And we should like to hear it from quite a long way away.
The flautist went off obediently to do her bidding.
A moment after she had left, one of Lady Xings women came hurrying up and whispered something in Lady Xings ear.
What is it?
said Grandmother Jia.
Its Sir She, said Lady Xing.
On his way back just now he tripped over a rock and twisted his ankle.
Grandmother Jia at once sent two of her own women to 509 see how he was and told Lady Xing that she was to go back immediately and look after him.
Lady Xing rose and took her leave.
Zhens wife may as well go back now too, said Grandmother Jia.
Then I shall go home to bed.
I dont intend to go back at all tonight, said You-shi.
I have resolved to spend the night here with you.
That will never do!
said Grandmother Jia, laughing.
Tonight of all nights a young couple like you ought to be together.
I cant have you staying away from your husband for my sake!
You-shi coloured.
Really, Grandma, what a thing to say!
I suppose Zhen and I are still comparatively young, but we have been married nearly twenty years, you know we are both nearly forty.
And in any case, were still in mourning for Sir Jing.
Id much better spend the night here with you.
Yes, of course, said Grandmother Jia.
Id quite forgotten you were still in mourning.
Poor Sir Jing!
It must be more than two years now - but I ought not to have forgotten.
I shall drink this big cupful as a punishment!
All right, youd better stay and keep me company then.
Let Rongs wife see Lady Xing out.
After that, she can go back home herself.
You-shi instructed her daughter-in-law accordingly, whereupon little Hu-shi accompanied Lady Xing as far as the main gate of the mansion.
There both ladies got into their carriages and went their separate ways.
Meanwhile the company had been over to the other side of the terrace to admire the cassia.
They now took their places at table once more and were served with freshly heated wine.
In the midst of their chattering and laughter, suddenly startling them into silence, the undulant, lamenting sound of a flute came floating up to them from the cassia-trees below.
Beautiful at any time, such music heard in the stillness of the night under the great vault of the sky with a bright moon above and only the cold, invisible night wind stirring in the earth below steals like a balm over the soul, soothing and dissolving all earthly griefs and cares.
They listened, rapt and silent, with upturned, attentive faces.
The music continued 510 for about the space in which one could comfortably have drunk two cups of tea and then stopped.
The momentary silence which followed it was broken by cries of admiration from all present.
The winecups were replenished with warm wine.
You see, said Grandmother Jia.
It is good, isnt it?
It truly is, they agreed.
Who could have imagined anything so beautiful?
If it werent for you, Grandma, we might never have had this experience.
It could have been much better, said Grandmother Jia.
To get the full benefit you need to hear something really slow.
She had a large cup of wine poured and ordered one of her women to take it to the flautist.
Tell her to take her time with this, and say that when shes finished drinking it, Id like her to play us another piece, only more softly this time.
While this woman went off with the message and the wine, the two women she had sent off earlier to inquire after Jia Shes ankle returned.
Weve had a look at Sir She, Your Ladyship.
His right ankle is rather swollen, but hes taken some medicine and the pain is not so bad now.
It doesnt look very serious.
Grandmother Jia nodded and sighed.
You see?
The truth is, I worry too much.
He was trying to make out that I dont care about him at all!
While she was saying this, Faithful appeared carrying a large cape and hood.
Here, put these on, she said.
Its getting very late.
You dont want to be outside when the dew falls.
Arent you afraid of catching cold?
I think when youve sat a little longer, you ought to come back home to bed.
Just when Im enjoying myself you have to start nagging me to go to bed, said Grandmother Jia.
I hope you dont think Im drunk.
Ive decided to stay up till dawn.
She called rebelliously for more wine, but did put the cape and hood on notwithstanding.
The other ladies drank with her for company and did their best to be amusing.
Then, silencing them once more, the sound of the flute concealed in the cassia-bushes below came stealing into their ears, this time 511 more plaintive even than before.
Indeed, this time the combination of the flutes melancholy with the effects of nocturnal stillness and ghostly moonlight induced a feeling of such overpowering sadness in the listeners that they turned their backs on it and sought, with talk and somewhat forced laughter, to escape it.
Fresh wine was called for and the flautist told to stop playing.
Ill cheer you up, Lady Jia, said You-shi.
Let me tell you a funny story.
I learnt it specially for the occasion.
Ha, ha, ha.
Yes, that would be very nice, a joke.
Do tell me, said Grandmother Jia with a jollity that seemed somewhat strained.
There were once four brothers, You-shi began.
The eldest had only one eye, the second had only one ear, the third had only one nostril, and the fourth, though he had all his parts in order, was dumb.
She had got no farther with her story when she became aware that the old ladys head was nodding down upon her bosom and her eyelids drooping as though she was about to go to sleep.
She broke off at once, and she and Lady Wang both called gently to her to wake up.
Grandmother Jia opened her eyes wide and laughed.
Im not sleeping, I was just resting my eyes.
Go on with your story.
Im listening.
Its very late, said Lady Wang.
The air is cold tonight and there is a lot of dew.
Wont you go home and rest now, Mother?
We can have another moon-party tomorrow night, if you feel like it.
The moon on the sixteenth is still well worth watching.
What time is it?
Grandmother Jia asked.
Past two oclock, said Lady Wang.
The children couldnt hold out any longer.
They have all gone off to bed.
Grandmother Jia looked round the table.
Only Tan-chun was still sitting there in the semicircle of empty chairs.
Well, said Grandmother Jia, they are not used to staying up late.
Considering the amount of weakness and sickliness there is among them, I suppose it is just as well.
But theres my little Tan, sitting there all on her own, poor child!
You go to bed too, my dear.
Well end the party now.
512 She got up herself as she said this, and after taking a sip or two of green tea, climbed into her bamboo carrying-chair and was borne out of the Garden by two women, the rest walking beside her or following close behind.
But of her and them no more.
One of the women who remained behind to clear the table and stack the crockery noticed that a single porcelain cup was missing.
After looking everywhere for it unsuccessfully, she appealed to the other servants.
I suppose one of you must have dropped it accidentally and thrown it away somewhere.
Do please tell us, and let us have the broken pieces, so that when we report the loss we shant be accused of having stolen it.
None of us has broken it, said the others.
It might have been a maid of one of the young ladles that broke it.
If you can think who it might have been, I should go and ask them.
You are right, said the woman, suddenly recollecting.
I remember Kingfisher coming to fetch a cup for her mistress.
I must go and ask her for it.
She had not far to look.
A short way along the paved path at the bottom of the steps she came upon her and Nightingale walking along together.
It was Kingfisher who spoke first.
Oh, has Her Old Ladyship ended the party then?
I suppose you dont know where my mistress has gone?
Ive come to ask you what youve done with one of our teacups, said the woman, and you ask me about your mistress!
Kingfisher laughed.
I poured out a cup of tea some time ago and handed it to her, and the next thing I knew was shed disappeared - with the teacup.
Her Ladyship said just now that the young ladies had all gone to bed, said the woman.
I dont know where you two can have been larking about all this time not to know anything about it.
Im sure our mistresses wouldnt have slipped off to bed without telling us, said Kingfisher.
More likely they lust went off for a walk.
Perhaps when Her Old Ladyship left they joined the others to see her back to her apartment.
Well go 513 over there now and have a look.
If they are there, we shall know where your cup is.
Why dont you come round and ask me for it tomorrow?
Theres no pressing hurry for it now, is there?
Theres no hurry as long as I know where it is, said the woman.
Ill call round and ask you for it tomorrow.
She went back to the pavilion then, to finish stacking the crockery.
Lady Wang was wrong.
Dai-yu and Xiang-yun had not gone to bed.
The sight of all those Jias enjoying the moonlight in spite of Grandmother Jias complaint that the numbers were so few and the thought of Bao-chai and Bao-qin enjoying a moon-party of their own with Aunt Xue and the two Xue males made the occasion a painful one for Dai-yu.
She had slipped away not in order to go to bed but to lean on the terrace railings and cry.
Bao-yu on this occasion had little thought for anything but Skybrights illness, which had lately taken a serious turn for the worse, and after several appeals from his mother to go to bed, he had availed himself of the excuse for going back in order to find out how she was.
Tanchun was still feeling too much out of temper after the recent d9mestic upheavals to have any appetite for amusement.
Ying-chun and Xi-chun might have kept Dai-yu company, but since they did not as a rule get on with her very well, it would not have occurred to them to do so.
That left only Xiang-yun to offer her some comfort.
Now coz, this wont do!
Youre an intelligent girl you must take more care of yourself.
I must say, it is too bad of Chai and Qin.
All that talk about spending Mid-Autumn night enjoying the moon together and using the occasion to revive the Poetry Club with another linked couplets session - and then, when the time comes, they leave us in the lurch and go off to enjoy the moon by themselves!
No Poetry Club, no linked couplets, nothing!
Its all the fault of those wretched men!
You remember the remark made by the first Song emperor No one but me is allowed to snore in this bedroom!
Thats the menfolks attitude at a party.
Never mind.
514 Since the others havent come, well make up some linked couplets ourselves and take them along tomorrow to shame them with.
Xiang-yun was so enthusiastic a comforter that Dai-yu felt she could not show herself wholly unresponsive.
The trouble is, all these people here are making so much noise, she said.
Its not an atmosphere very conducive to poetic inspiration.
Although the hilltop is a good place for enjoying the moon from, said Xiang-yun, the moon would look even better over water.
I dont know whether you realize it, but one side of this hill does actually give onto the lake.
There is a little building there called the Concave Pavilion nestling in a hollow quite close to the waters edge.
Whoever made this Garden must have been quite an educated person.
The place where we are now is obviously called the Convex Pavilion because it is on top of the convex hill, and Concave Pavilion must have been given its name because it is in a hollow.
Those two words concave and convex are very seldom encountered in literature.
Their use in landscape gardening for the naming of features must be even rarer.
To my mind the linking together of these two pavilions by so unusual a pair of names suggests that they must have been specially designed for viewing the moon from Convex Pavilion for those who like the small, remote moon of the mountains and high places, Concave Pavilion for those who prefer the silky whiteness of the great orb reflected in the surface of the water.
Convex and concave are often thought of as vulgar, unpoetical words, but that is only because of their modern associations.
Some people even call that well-known line of Lu Yous vulgar In well-worn concave patch the ground ink settles but I find that criticism rather silly.
Lu You is by no means the only writer to have used those words in a work of literature, said Dai-yu.
Jiang Yan uses them in his prose-poem Moss, Dong-fang Shuo uses them somewhere in his Book of Marvels, and in Lives of the Painters they turn up in a description of Zhang Seng-yaos decoration of the Ekayana Monastery at Nanking.
In fact, there must be 515 countless instances in literature.
I think its merely ignorance that nowadays leads people to dismiss them as unpoetical.
To tell you the truth, it was I who gave these two pavilions their names.
That year when Bao-yu did all the naming of places in the Garden there were several places left over afterwards which he either hadnt got round to naming or had given names to that were thought unsuitable, and the task of naming them was given to us girls.
The names we made up were taken to the Palace for Cousin Yuans approval and she sent word back saying that provided Uncle Zheng approved of them they were to be used.
So thats how I came to name these two pavilions.
All right, lets go down then.
The two girls descended the slope of the little mountain.
A few steps round a turn in the pathway which skirted the foot of it took them to the pavilion.
Near the waters edge, linking it with Lotus Pavilion farther along the shore, was a bamboo railing.
The two old women who were on night watch in it, little imagining that an overspill from the hilltop party would come their way, had long since put their light out and gone to sleep.
Dai-yu and Xiang-yun laughed when they saw that the pavilion was in darkness.
Theyve gone to sleep.
Never mind.
All the better.
Lets sit outside here on the covered verandah and look at the moonlight on the water.
They found a couple of drum-shaped bamboo stools to sit down on.
A great white moon in the water reflected the great white moon above, competing with it in brightness.
The girls felt like mermaids sitting in a shining crystal palace beneath the sea.
A little wind that brushed over the surface of the water making tiny ripples seemed to cleanse their souls and fill them with buoyant lightness.
If only I were in a boat now, with some wine to drink!
said Xiang-yun.
If this were my own home, I should jump into a boat now immediately.
Theres an old saying Who seeks perfection must abandon joy, said Dai-yu.
If you ask me, I think we are very well the way we are.
Why do we have to be in a boat to enjoy this?
Xiang-yun laughed.
516 One conquest breeds appetite for another.
That applies to most of us, you know, not only to generals.
While she was speaking, a flute began to play.
They listened for some moments to its plaintive rise and fail.
Grandma and Aunt Wang are obviously enjoying themselves, said Dai-yu, smiling.
The flute is a very happy touch.
We shall put it to our own purposes, you and I.
It shall inspire our verse.
We both like pentameters, dont we?
Lets do linked pentameters as we did on that other occasion.
What rhyme?
said Xiang-yun.
We could use a number for a rhyme, said Dai-yu.
Lets count the uprights in the railing as far as that angle over there.
Whatever the number is shall be our rhyme.
Thats a very ingenious idea, said Xiang-yun.
The two girls got up and walked along the railing to count.
It turned out that there were exactly eight posts from one angle of the railing to the next.
Hmn, said Xiang-yun.
Eight.
I wonder how far we shall get with that rhyme.
The danger with this sort of thing always is that after a time the rhyming becomes forced - or else one simply cant go on at all.
Well, you begin.
Id like to have been able to see afterwards which of us had done better, said Dai-yu, but unfortunately we havent got anything to write with.
Ill write it out tomorrow, said Xiang-yun.
I may not be very clever, but Ive got a reasonably good memory.
All right, said Dai-yu.
Ill start with something very prosy and obvious.
-1344 DAI-YU -534 Fifteenth night of the Eighth, Mid-Autumn moon - -384 Xiang-yun thought a bit before following.
-1344 XIANG-YUN Whose joys the First Full Moons do emulate, -534 Under your crystal-constellation heaven - -1344 DAI-TU -534 The sounds of music everywhere pulsate.
At many a hoard the reckless winecups fly - 517 Ha!
I like the reckless winecups, said Xiang-yun.
I must try to do them justice.
Let me see.
She thought for a bit.
-1344 XIANG-YUN -384 Where friends are met your feast to celebrate.
The air is crisp, the wind more bracing blows You finished the couplet very well, said Dai-yu, but that second line is a bit weak, isnt it?
Weve got a long way to go and the rhyming will soon begin to get harder, said Xiang-yun.
I want to save up any good ideas I may have until later.
Mind you produce some good lines later then, said Dai-yu.
Otherwise you are going to look pretty silly!
She proceeded to finish the couplet.
-1344 DAI-YU -534 In the clear sky the cold stars scintillate.
-384 Grey hairs are mocked when they for cakes dispute - I dont like that line, said Xiang-yun.
It sound like an allusion, but I think you have just made it up to confuse me.
That shows you dont read much, said Dai-yu.
Its a perfectly good allusion.
Theres a story about quarrelling over cakes in the Official history of the Tang Dynasty.
Ill show you it tomorrow.
Well, anyway, Im not going to be confused, said Xiang yun.
I can cap that line.
-1344 XIANG-YUN Green girls divide the melons, eight and eight.
New scents the jade-like cassia have enriched - Now that really is a bogus allusion, said Dai-yu.
Well look both our allusions up tomorrow and the others can judge between us, said Xiang-yun.
In the meanwhile, lets get on with this and stop wasting time.
Thats all very well, said Dai-yu, but I dont like your other line either.
We ought to be able to manage without cliches like lade-like cassia.
I call that mere padding.
518 -1344 DAI-YU -347 Closed day4ilies the morrows gold gestate.
A blaze of candles gilds the radiant feasters Gold gestate !
said Xiang-yun.
Well, thats one way of getting a rhyme - a pretty cheap one if you ask me And your second line is quite as much padding as mine was.
If you hadnt started with jade-like cassia, I shouldnt have brought in my gold-gestating day-lilies, said Dai-yu.
And as regards my second line, I should have thought a few words on the brilliance of the feast were called for, in order to do justice to the occasion.
Since Dai-yu was evidently not going to concede anything, Xiang-yun was obliged to finish off the couplet.
-1344 XIANG-YUN -384 Whom frequent sconcings soon inebriate.
Competing, they observe the games strict order Ah, thats a good line!
said Dai-yu.
She thought a bit before capping it.
-1344 DAI-YU -384 And rules for I spy gravely promulgate.
Some shake the pretty dice and make them roll I like gravely promulgate, said Xiang-yun, laughing.
It lifts a vulgar subject up and gives it tone.
But then your dice in the next line bring us back again to the banal.
She followed as best she could.
-1344 XIANG-YUN -534 Or, to the drums quick beat, the branch rotate.
The clear rays glint on roofs and courts below - Well capped!
said Dai-yu.
But then in your next line you wander off the track.
Is that the best you can do, padding out with that stuff about moonlight?
In point of fact we havent said much about the moon yet, said Xiang-yun.
Surely a few words on the subject are in order?
Isnt that what our poem is supposed to be about?
All right, let it pass, said Dai-yu.
Well have another look at it tomorrow.
519 She continued.
-1344 DAI-YU -534 And all in silvery light illuminate.
Prizes and forfeits impartially they ponder - Oh dear!
are we back with that lot again?
said Xiang-yun.
Why not something about ourselves for a change?
-1344 XIANG-YUN -384 Sibling verse-contests they adjudicate.
Poets lean on railings, seeking inspiration 'Youve managed to get round to us at last!
said Dai-yu.
-1344 DAI-YU -384 Or hunt for rhymes, propped up against a gate.
The excitement lingers, though the partys over Oh, does it?
said Xiang-yun.
-1344 XIANG-YUN -384 The sounds of music softly terminate.
Slowly the talk and laughter fade to silence- Its getting harder all the time now to rhyme, said Dai-yu.
-1344 DAI-YU Leaving a moonscape hushed and desolate.
On dewy steps the tiny toadstools sprout Just a minute, I cant think how to rhyme this, said Xiang-yun.
She got up and paced to and fro, hands clasped behind her, thinking.
Ha, yes, thatll do!
she said after some moments.
Good job I thought of that word, otherwise I might have had to give up.
-1344 XIANG-YUN -534 Tight-curled albizzia bushes pernoctate.
A rain-swelled swirl rips through the brook-bed rocks -Dai-yu leapt to her feet, unable to restrain a cry of admiration.
520 You wretch!
You certainly have left the good things till last.
Pernoctate is a splendid word.
But what is albizzia for goodness sake?
I came across it yesterday in the Prose Anthology, said Xiang-yun.
I was going to look it up because I didnt know what kind of tree it was, but Cousin Chai told me I didnt need to she said it was another name for what we nowadays call mimosa.
I didnt believe her, so I looked it up all the same.
She was right.
That girl knows everything.
Well, it was very clever of you to have thought of it, said Dai-yu, smiling, especially as mimosa does in fact close up at night.
But that rain-swelled swirl line is brilliant.
That single line is worth all the lines we have made up so far put together.
I shall have to think very carefully before capping it.
I very much doubt whether, even so, I shall be able to think of anything as good.
After thinking for a while, she produced the following.
-827 DAI-YU -534 And wind-combed leaves on ledges congregate.
The Weaving Maid in lonely splendour shines - Your capping line is not at all bad, said Xiang-yun, but that second line wanders off the track a bit.
Still, I suppose you could say your Weaving Maid is saved from being mere padding by the lonely.
It introduces an element of feeling into the line.
-827 XIANG-YUN -534 Damp airs the silver Toad of the moon inflate.
See where the Hare immortal medicine pounds - Dai-yu nodded silently for some moments before reciting her own two lines.
-827 DAI-YU -534 Thither Chang E was forced to emigrate.
A man moves upwards through the constellations - Xiang-yun, gazing up at the moon, also nodded.
-827 XIANG-YUN -480 A raft floats skywards with a human freight.
Waxing or waning, the moons face, ever changing 521 That capping line is not good, said Dai-yu.
It merely repeats what my line said in other words.
You manage to get clear again with your second line.
I suppose you wanted to compensate for the sameness of the first couplet by making a big jump in the second.
-1014 DAI-YU -534 Its substance changeless and inanimate.
-384 Soon the clepsydras night-long drip will cease Xiang-yun was about to continue when Dai-yu drew her attention to a black shape in the middle of the lake.
Look, in that dark shadow there, like a human shape!
Do you think it could be a ghost?
Xiang-yun laughed.
Oh, shes seeing ghosts now!
Im not afraid of ghosts.
I shall throw a stone at it.
She bent down to pick up a pebble and hurled it into the centre of the lake.
They heard a plop and saw the distorted image of the moon expand and contract as concentric ripples travelled outwards from the shattered surface.
There was a loud squawk, and from the middle of the dark shadow a white stork flew up and flapped his way across the water in the direction of Lotus Pavilion.
So thats who it was!
said Dai-yu.
I wasnt expecting him to be there.
He gave me quite a shock.
Im very grateful to that stork, said Xiang-yun.
Hes given me a first line for the next couplet.
-1014 XIANG-YUN Black shades the lamps last gleams annihilate -384 A storks dark shape crosses the cold, bright water Dai-yu murmured admiringly, but stamped with vexation when she began to think about finishing the couplet.
Wretched stork, coming to her aid like that!
This is not like the rain-swelled swirl couplet Im not going to be able to complete it by paralleling the whole line.
A contrast for the dark moving shape is the most I can hope for.
But your line is so natural, so simple and expressive.
I feel almost like giving up.
522 Perhaps if we both thought about it we could finish it together, said Xiang-yun.
Or, if you prefer, lets break off now and you can try again tomorrow.
Dai-yu stared up at the sky, ignoring her.
Suddenly, after remaining immobile for some seconds, she gave a little laugh.
Stop your chatter, girl!
I can finish this couplet.
Listen -827 DAI- yu -534 Where, moon-embalmed, a dead muse lies in state.
Xiang-yun clapped her hands.
Excellent!
Couldnt be better!
I love your dead muse!
She sighed.
I mean excellent from a purely poetic point of view, because its so original.
Its a bit morbid, though.
I dont think it can be good for a person in your state of health to indulge in such chilling fantasies.
With you to compete against, how else could I keep my end up?
said Dai-yu.
Because I put so much into that last line- Just at that moment a figure stepped out from behind the spur of rock beyond the tailings.
Bravo!
An excellent line!
said this person.
But it is, indeed, a little too melancholy.
Dont do any more.
If you go on from there, the danger is that you may produce something forced and mechanical, which instead of offsetting the beauty of your line will merely spoil it.
Startled by this unexpected interruption, the two girls looked hard in the direction from which it came and with some surprise recognized the speaker as Adamantina.
What are you doing here?
they asked her.
Hearing the sounds of your moon-watching party, followed later by the sound of a flute playing, I was tempted to come out and enjoy the moon myself.
I wanted to see it over this open expanse of water, where it appears to most advantage, and as I approached, I could hear you both reciting.
Such pure refinement constrained me to stay and listen.
But there were lines which, in spite of their excellence contained a note of almost decadent melancholy, lines which made me fearful for the person uttering them.
That is why I came out of my concealment and prevented you from going on.
Lady Jia has 523 long since broken up the party.
Everyone else in the Garden must be in bed by now.
I wonder where your maids are.
Doubtless they are somewhere looking for you.
Are you not afraid of catching cold?
Come with me, and I shall give you some hot tea to drink.
It must be nearly dawn.
Dai-yu laughed.
Id no idea the night was so far advanced.
The three of them walked together to Green Bower Hermitage.
A faint light still flickered in the Buddha shrine and the incense in the burner gave off a tiny smoke.
All the old lay-sisters were asleep.
A little maid, nodding sleepily on Adamantinas meditation mat, appeared to be the only person still up.
She roused herself when Adamantina called to her and made some tea with water from the already boiling kettle.
Just at that moment there was a knocking at the gate and the little maid hurried to open it.
It turned out to be Nightingale and Kingfisher with two or three old womenservants, looking for their mistresses.
They found their mistresses drinking tea inside.
Well!
they said.
Youve led us a fine old dance!
Weve been all over the Garden looking for you.
We even tried Mrs Xues outside.
In the end we happened to go to that little pavilion under the mountain, just as the caretakers were waking up.
When we asked them about you they said, There were two people talking outside on the covered verandah a while ago, then a third one came along and we heard them saying they were going to the Hermitage.
Thats how we knew you were here.
Adamantina told the little maid to take them round to the back where they could sit down and have some tea.
She herself took paper, inkstone, brush and ink and began writing out the poem in linked couplets at the other twos dictation.
Dai-yu was impressed by Adamantinas enthusiasm.
I have never before liked to ask for your opinions about poetry because I have never before seen you show so much interest, she said but since you now obviously are in the mood for discussing it, wont you please favour us with some criticism?
If you think that what we have done is no good at 524 all, let us burn it hut if you can see ways of improving it, do please correct it for us.
I certainly would not presume to alter any of it, said Adamantina smiling but as there are no less than twenty-three couplets here, I am pretty sure that all your best lines must have been used up by now, and that if you were to go on, there would be a danger that you might begin to flag.
What I should have liked to do would have been to go on for you myself but I am afraid that if I did, I might only succeed in adding a dogs tail to your leopard-skin!
Dai-yu had never seen Adamantina compose poetry before and took her up eagerly on her obvious willingness to do so now.
Oh please do, if you have a mind to!
Though our verses may be of little value, they will gain distinction by being associated with yours.
In order to conclude what you have done so far, said Adamantina, it will be necessary to bring the poem back to what we Buddhists call the proper aspect.
If we continue to abandon reality and go chasing after the bizarre and the supernatural, we shall be guilty not only of unmaidenliness but also of losing sight of our subject.
Mesdemoiselles Lin and Shi agreed.
Adamantina picked up the brush and began, muttering and writing by turns, until, having knocked off some dozen or so couplets, all in the same apparently effortless manner, she laid the brush down again and handed the paper over for the other two to read.
This is what she had written In golden censers figured incense burns Unguents in their lade pots coagulate.
-534 A flute provokes the grieving widows weeping She craves some warmth her beds chill to abate.
Its cheerless hangings stir in the wind of autumn, Its love-ducks mock a mistress without mate Thick dews make treacherous the slippery moss, And spears of frost the tall bamboos serrate -534 Better the winding lakeside path to follow, Or lonely hilltop to perambulate -320 Bound demons seem to writhe in the tortured rock-shapes In the trees black shadows wild things pullulate.
-320 Lights harbingers begin with the dark to struggle, And mornings first dews to accumulate -320 Birds in a thousand treetops wake the woodland In the echoing valley sad apes ululate.
-320 My footsteps tread the paths familiar turnings, Nor need the streams source to investigate.
-320 From Green Bower convent sounds the matin bell And Sweet-rice cocks the dawn anticipate.
-320 Why should this rapt enjoyment end in sorrow, Or timid cares our conscience irritate?
-320 Poets ought in themselves to find their pleasure, Not in the message they communicate.
-320 As daylight breaks let none of us plead tiredness, But over tea continue our debate.
At the end of these couplets she had written down the title for the whole poem Mid-Autumn Night in Prospect Garden A Poem in Thirty-five Couplets Dai-yu and Xiang-yun were full of admiration.
Strange that we should be always looking round for poetic talent, they said, and all the time we have had a poet like you on our very doorstep!
These verses of yours make anything we have ever done look very amateurish.
I must have another look at them tomorrow and touch them up a bit, said Adamantina smiling.
Its already dawn.
We really must go to bed.
Dai-yu and Xiang-yun got up and took their leave.
Their maids left with them.
Adamantina saw them outside the gate and stood a long while watching them go.
They had already covered a good part of the way back when she at last went in again and closed the gate after her.
Kingfisher wanted Xiang-yun to go to Li Wans place to sleep.
526 The people at Mrs Thus are expecting you, miss.
You ought to go there.
Drop in there on the way and tell them not to wait up for me any longer, said Xiang-yun.
Mrs Thu is still ill.
If I went back there to sleep now, Im afraid I might disturb her.
If Im going to disturb anyone, let it be Miss Lin.
When they reached the Naiads House, they found half the servants there asleep.
The girls took off their ornaments and outer clothes, washed, and got into bed.
Nightingale let down the bed-curtains, and having set the lamp down within easy reach of the bed, went out and closed the door.
But neither of the girls could sleep, Xiang-yun because she always had difficulty in getting to sleep in a strange bed, and Dai-yu because her anaemic condition always made sleeping difficult for her, and because on this occasion she had long since passed beyond tiredness, so that for her sleep was in any case out of the question.
For a long time the two of them lay tossing and turning on the bed.
Cant you get to sleep?
Dai-yu asked Xiang-yun eventually.
I can never get to sleep in a strange bed, said Xiang-yun with a rueful laugh.
Anyway, Im too tired to get to sleep.
Ill just have to lie and rest.
Cant you get to sleep either?
Dai-yu sighed.
This is no novelty for me, she said.
I dont suppose I get more than ten really good nights sleep in a year.
No wonder youre always ill, said Xiang-yun.
Our story continues in the following chapter.
CHAPTER 77 A wronged maid takes a loving last leave of her master And three young actresses seek to escape matrimony in the cloister To Lady Wang it appeared that, with the passing of the MidAutumn festival, Xi-fengs condition had improved considerably.
True, she was still far from well, but she could get about in the house now and even venture out of doors.
The physician, who, notwithstanding this improvement, had on Lady Wangs instructions been requested to continue his daily visits, was now recommending a course of pills designed to regularize her periods and make some new blood to replace the quantities she had lost.
Observing that the prescription for these pills included two ounces of the best quality ginseng, Lady Wang ordered her maids to get out her own supply.
After much rummaging they found a few pieces not much thicker than a large hairpin in one of the little medicine-boxes.
When they showed them to Lady Wang, she thought them of too inferior a quality and ordered the maids to look again but further searching produced only a large packet of whiskers broken off from the rootlets.
When one doesnt need this stuff, there is always plenty of it, said Lady Wang testily.
It is only when we want some that you cant find any.
I am always telling you you must keep a proper check on things and you must keep them together, but you wont do as I say you will leave things lying around all over the place, and then afterwards you never know where to look for them.
I think this is all the ginseng weve got, said Suncloud.
That time Lady Xing came for some, I think she must have taken it all.
Nonsense!
said Lady Wang.
Go and look again.
And look properly this time!
528 Suncloud had to go off and search some more.
She came back bearing several packets of herbs.
I dont know what is in these, Your Ladyship.
If there isnt any ginseng in any of these, then we really havent got any.
Lady Wang opened the packets.
She had no recollection of what they contained and could not identify the contents, but she could tell at a glance that none of them contained any ginseng.
She sent someone to Xi-fengs room to ask if Xi-feng had got any herself.
Xi-feng came over to reply.
Ive only got extract of ginseng, she said.
Actually I have got a few dried leaves and whiskers, but they are not of good quality and I use them every day in my infusions.
Lady Wang was obliged to ask Lady Xing but she, too, was unable to oblige.
Lady Wang was now reduced to going round in person to Grandmother Jia and begging some from her.
Grandmother Jia at once asked Faithful to get out whatever remained of her own supply.
Fortunately there was still a large packetful.
The roots were of various sizes, but mostly about the thickness of a finger.
Faithful weighed out two ounces and gave them to Lady Wang, who carried them back to her own apartment and there handed them over to Zhou Ruis wife, together with the packets of unidentified herbs, instructing her to get one of the pages to carry them to the doctor.
While he was about it, she said, he could determine what the herbs were and write their names on the packets.
When Zhou Ruis wife reappeared some time later, she was carrying not only the packets of herbs but also the ginseng.
Hes written the names on the packets, she said.
But this ginseng - he says its very high quality ginseng, but its too old.
He says ginseng isnt like other medicines no matter how good it is, after a hundred years or so it turns into dust.
This ginseng here hasnt turned into dust yet, but he says its already dried-up, like rotten wood.
Its got no goodness in it.
He told me to bring it back.
He said tell Her Ladyship to try and get hold of some a bit fresher than this.
It doesnt matter about the roots being a bit on the thin side as long as its fresh.
529 Lady Wang bowed her head and thought for some moments in silence.
I suppose theres nothing else for it.
We shall just have to buy two ounces.
- Take this stuff away I she said, feeling no inclination to examine the packets.
One of the maids removed them while she continued with her instructions to Zhou Ruis wife.
Tell our buyer to pick out ginseng of the very best quality.
He is to get it as cheaply as he can, of course, but it must be high quality ginseng.
Oh, and if Lady Jia should ask any of you about this, tell her that we used the ginseng she gave us.
Dont go prattling to her about what the doctor said.
Zhou Ruis wife was about to go off on her errand when Bao-chai, who happened to be sitting in the room, smilingly intervened.
Just a minute, Aunt.
There is really no good ginseng to be had in the shops nowadays.
If the dealers ever get hold of a whole root, they cut it into two or three sections which they carve into shape and graft crowns and rootlets onto so that they can make more money by passing off each section as a whole root.
Our firm has quite a lot to do with the ginseng suppliers.
If I had a word with Mamma about this, I am sure Pan could arrange for one of our people to get two ounces of whole, uncut root from the suppliers.
It might cost rather a lot, but at least you could be sure that you were getting ginseng of the very highest quality.
You are so knowledgeable!
said Lady Wang gratefully.
Would you do that then?
I am sure it would be better for the request to come from you.
Bao-chai left immediately and was gone for a long time.
Hes sent someone to see about it, she said when she got back.
We shall have a reply by this evening.
That means that we ought to be able to get the stuff first thing tomorrow.
That isnt too long to wait, is it?
Lady Wang was delighted, though her comment was a somewhat rueful one.
We have always kept a supply of ginseng in the past, and we have given I dont know how much away to other people but now that we want some ourselves, we have to run around looking for it elsewhere.
530 She sighed.
Although ginseng is so costly, it is only a medicine, said Bao-chai consolingly.
As such it ought to be given away to others, so that its benefit may be spread as widely as possible.
People in our position cannot behave like ill-bred parvenus who hoard their ginseng like an heirloom and can only under the most exceptional circumstances be induced to part with any.
Lady Wang nodded.
Yes, I suppose you are right.
A little later, after Bao-chai had gone and there was no one else with her in the room, Lady Wang called Zhou Ruis wife over to ask about another matter.
When you made that search in the Garden the other day, did you find what you were looking for?
Zhou Ruis wife had already consulted Xi-feng about what Lady Wang should be told and Xi-feng had insisted that there should be no concealment she therefore told her everything.
Lady Wang was deeply shocked.
When she had somewhat recovered from her surprise and begun thinking what to do, it occurred to her that, as Chess was Ying-chuns maid and therefore really a member of Lady Xings establishment, it would first be necessary to acquaint Lady Xing with the facts before proceeding any further.
Zhou Ruis wife had her own ideas on the subject.
Lady Xing was so angry with Wang Shan-baos wife for meddling that she boxed her ears and Wang Shan-baos wife has kept at home ever since, pretending to be ill. She certainly wont have spoken to Lady Xing about this matter because Chess is her own daughters child and it would be like slapping her own face if she did so I expect shes pretending to have forgotten all about it and is just waiting for the whole affair to blow over.
If I report it, Lady Xing will like as not take umbrage and say that I am interfering.
It would be best simply to take Chess and the things we found along to her and let her work it all out for herself.
Probably shell give Chess a beating and have her married to one of the boys and pick another maid for Miss Ying and that will be the end of the matter.
But if I just go along and tell her, without taking Chess 531 or the things, shell probably think up some excuse for doing nothing.
If your mistress has found this out, shell say, why doesnt she deal with it herself?
Why do you come here asking me about it?
That way it will get put off.
Then suppose when no one is looking the girl finds some means of doing away with herself?
We shall have a fine to-do on our hands!
Shes already been under guard now for two or three days.
If we dont do something about her soon, we shall be simply asking for trouble.
Lady Wang reflected for some moments.
Yes, you are right, she said at last.
Do as you have suggested straight away then, and after that we will deal with our own young harpies.
Now that she had her commission, Zhou Ruis wife got together several of the other women and took them with her to Ying-chuns apartment.
Ying-chun listened with tears in her eyes while Zhou Ruis wife explained what she had come about, and it was evident that the idea of parting with Chess distressed her on the other hand, as she had now heard something about the raid from the other maids and knew that this matter was connected in some way with morality, she felt that however painful the parting might be, there was probably nothing she could do to prevent it.
Chess was unaware of this.
She had pleaded with Ying-chun the morning after the discovery and was convinced that Ying-chun could save her if she had a mind to.
It could only be her habitual reluctance to speak out, her usual weak irresolution, that now kept her silent.
When it became clear that her mistress was determined to say nothing and that there was to be no escape for her, Chess fell down on her knees and reproached her tearfully.
You have a cruel heart, miss!
All through these last few days you have allowed me to go on hoping, but now, when the time comes, you wont say a single word to help me!
You surely dont expect Miss Ying to keep you?
said Zhou Ruis wife indignantly.
Even if she did, what would all the other people in the Garden say?
And how would you be able to look them in the face after what you have done?
Take my advice the best thing you can do is to pack your things up and get Out of here as quickly as possible, before anyone 532 else has had a chance of finding out what you have been up to.
I know that you have done something serious, said Yingchun tearfully.
If I speak up for you or try to keep you, it will be all up with me too.
Apart from that, look how quickly they got rid of Picture, in spite of all the years she had served Miss Xi just Out!
and out she went.
I dont think it will stop at you and Picture.
I think they must be planning to get rid of all the older girls in the Garden.
We are all going to be separated sooner or later.
If you ask me, I think you and I might just as well part now as any other time.
There, you see?
said Zhou Ruis wife.
Miss Ying understands.
Therell be plenty of others dismissed after you have gone, dont you worry!
Since there was to be no respite, Chess, struggling to hold back her tears, made a last kotow to her mistress and said good-bye to the other maids.
As she was leaving, she leaned forwards and whispered in Ying-chuns ear Try and find out whats happening to me, miss.
Put in a good word for me if you hear Im suffering.
Of course I will, said Ying-chun.
There were tears in her own eyes as she said it.
Those were the last words spoken before Zhou Ruis wife and the other women took Chess away.
Two old women accompanied them carrying her things.
They had gone no more than a few steps out of the courtyard gate when little Tangerine came running after them and handed Chess a silk purse, while with the other hand she wiped her streaming eyes.
This is from the mistress.
She says its hard to lose you after all the years you and she have been together and she wants you to have this to remember her by.
As she received the purse, Chess was unable to restrain a further outburst of tears, and for some moments she and Tangerine clung together weeping, until Zhou Ruis wife, growing impatient, began hustling Chess on her way, forcing the two girls apart.
Chess spoke to the women imploringly For charitys sake, couldnt you turn a blind eye just for a 533 few minutes while I say good-bye to the maids in the other apartments?
Some of the older ones I have known so long, they have become almost like sisters to me.
Zhou Ruis wife and the other women all had work of their own to do which they had left unwillingly and were anxious to get back to moreover all of them deeply resented the overbearing manner which Chess and the other senior maids had adopted towards them in the past there was therefore little chance of their being moved by her plea.
If I were you I should stop all this shilly-shallying and be on your way, said Zhou Ruis wife coldly.
Weve got more important things to do than sit around waiting while you say your good-byes.
In any case, theyre not your real sisters, so whats the point of seeing them?
Its only playing for time.
Youve got to leave in the end, however long you delay.
You might just as well get it over with now, as quickly as possible.
She hurried on towards the rear corner gate of the Garden.
The hapless Chess, not daring to say another word, had to follow her out of it.
By coincidence, just as they were coming out of the Garden, they ran into Bao-yu who was returning to it from outside.
Seeing Chess in the company of this grim escort and with the two older women behind her carrying a lot of things, he realized that she must be leaving the Garden for good.
He had heard something now about the raid and had noticed that Skybrights sickness had grown more serious since her interview with his mother though he could not induce her to say why.
The realization that he was witnessing Chesss dismissal came as all the greater shock in the light of these other happenings.
He stepped forwards impetuously and barred their way.
Where are you going?
Zhou Ruis wife knew Bao-yu from of old and greatly feared that they were now to be held up indefinitely with a lot of pointless chatter.
Its nothing to do with you, she said, smiling grimly.
You get back to your books!
Just stop a moment, theres a good woman, said Bao-yu appealingly, just long enough to hear what Ive got to say.
534 Her Ladyship told us we were under no circumstances to -delay, said Zhou Ruis wife.
Theres nothing to be said.
Weve got our orders from Her Ladyship, thats all were concerned about.
Chess clung to Bao-yu and wept.
Theres nothing they can do.
If you want to save me, youll have to speak to Her Ladyship.
Bao-yu was deeply upset.
His eyes filled with tears.
I dont know what terrible thing you are supposed to have done, he said, but I know that something has upset Skybright and made her ill, and now you are going.
What on earth is happening?
Zhou Ruis wife turned on Chess angrily.
Youre not a ladys maid now, you know.
Now if you dont do what I tell you, I have the right to beat you, just like any other servant.
You cant play fast and loose with us now and then run to your mistress to save you from the consequences.
Ive told you a number of times to be on your way, but you take no notice.
A maid holding on to a young master -whoever heard of such a thing!
At this the other women laid violent hands on Chess and hurried her away.
Bao-yu, fearing that if he said anything it would only make matters worse, glared at them in silence but he could not resist pointing his linger at them when they had gone and - sotto voce - giving bitter vent to his feelings Strange, the way they get like this when they marry!
It must be something in the male that infects them.
If anything they end up even worse than the men!
The old women on duty at the gate overheard this and could not help laughing at him.
In that case all girls must be good and all women must be bad, they said.
You dont really believe that, do you?
Indeed I do, said Bao-yu feelingly.
Thats precisely what I do believe.
Just at that moment some other old women came hurrying up to them.
Make sure youre all here in case Her Ladyship wants you, said one of them.
Shes in the Garden now, making an inspection.
And someone go and get Skybrights cousin and 535 his wife, so that theyll be ready to take her away presently.
She chuckled.
Holy Name!
The Lord has opened his eyes at last!
With that little pest out of the way, it will be a better place for all of us!
At the old womans mention of his mothers presence, Bao-yu, fearing that it might bode ill for Skybright, had rushed off immediately, so that he had missed the gloating remark which followed it.
When he arrived at Green Delights, he found a small crowd of women waiting outside the door.
His mother was sitting inside the room with anger written all over her face.
She deliberately ignored him as he entered.
Skybright, who had taken no nourishment of any kind for the past four or five days and was in too weak a state to get up, had been dragged from the kang and now stood facing her, propped up between two women.
Her hair was in disarray and her face looked as if it needed washing.
Throw out the clothes she has been wearing, Lady Wang was saying.
She can take them with her.
The rest can be kept here and given to more deserving maids to wear.
Having finished with Skybright, she ordered all the other maids to be called in, from Aroma down to the most junior maid-of-all-work, to be subjected to her scrutiny.
Each and every one of them was in Lady Wangs opinion a potential corrupter of her boy.
Which is the one whose birthday is on the same day as Bao-yus?
she asked.
Since the girl herself would not answer, one of the old women pointed her out.
This is the one, Your Ladyship Citronella.
Shes called Number Four.
Shes the one whose birthday is on the same day as Bao-yus.
Lady Wang examined the girl closely.
Although not half as good4ooking as Skybright, she had a certain gracefulness about her, and intelligence shone out in her every feature.
She was moreover better dressed than the other maids.
Lady Wang sniffed scornfully.
Another shameless young baggage!
This is the one who said that those with the same birthday are destined to be husband and wife.
You did say that, didnt you?
You think 536 that because I live away from here I dont know these things but though I may not come here often myself, I have my eyes and ears here, watching you and listening to you all the time.
Do you imagine that I would willingly allow my only son to be corrupted by creatures like you?
Number Four reddened, hearing from Lady Wangs own lips the words she once said to Bao-yu in private.
It was useless to deny that she had said them.
She hung her head and wept.
Tell her people to come and take her away, said Lady Wang.
She can be paired off with one of the boys.
Exit Number Four.
Now which is the one with the foreign name?
said Lady Wang.
Parfumee-Aventurin stepped forward.
Oh, it is you.
One expects an actress to be a vampire, but one had hoped, after you turned down the opportunity to go free and insisted on staying here, that you would make some effort to behave.
Instead, it seems, you have turned your attentions on my son and been encouraging him to get up to I dont know what sorts of mischief.
Parfumee smiled.
I havent encouraged him to get up to anything.
Lady Wang smiled back at her.
You would argue with me, would you?
I suppose it is hardly surprising, considering the way you treated your own foster-mother while I was away.
- Call her foster-mother!
she ordered.
I make her a present of this girl.
She can marry her to whomever she likes.
And you can give her her things to take as well.
Having thus disposed of Parfumee, she went on to give orders that none of the remaining ex-actresses were to stay any longer in the Garden.
Their foster-mothers were to be summoned to collect them and allowed to dispose of them as they wished.
The delight and gratitude of these women when.
they received the message can be imagined.
They arranged among themselves to visit Lady Wang in a body and kowtow their thanks to her before going into the Garden to collect the girls.
Lady Wang now proceeded to inspect Bao-yus things.
537 Anything which looked at all unfamiliar she had put on one side.
The whole lot were then wrapped up in one big bundle and carried to her own apartment.
Much better make a clean sweep of these things, she said.
There will be that much less for people to gossip about.
In conclusion she admonished Aroma and the remaining maids.
Now be careful!
From now on if I hear of anything the slightest bit unto ward happening, I shall have no mercy!
I cant move you out yet, because there are still investigations in progress, but next year I shall have the whole lot of you moved back into the mansion, and then perhaps I shall be able to set my mind at rest.
She went off at the head of her little troop of women, not even staying for a cup of tea.
When Bao-yu heard from the old woman of his mothers visit, he had expected something unpleasant but of no great consequence perhaps another inspection of the maids possessions.
He was therefore quite unprepared for the raging tempest that had just passed over him.
The things his mother had charged the maids with showed so uncanny a knowledge of even his most intimate conversations with them that there seemed little point in denial.
He felt wretched enough to die, but it was clear that even self-immolation could achieve nothing while his mothers anger was at its height.
He therefore followed after her in silence, until he had seen her as far as Drenched Blossoms Pavilion half-way across the bridge, when she peremptorily ordered him to return.
Go back - and get on with your studies!
Then next time your father asks you about them, you will at least be able to say that you have made a start.
Bao-yu turned back.
All the way back to Green Delights he was thinking to himself Whos been blabbing?
No one outside knows about these things.
How did Mother get to hear about them?
The question was continuing to trouble him when he entered his room.
He noticed that Aroma was in tears.
Well, she would be if any of the senior maids was leaving, he thought.
Its only natural.
538 He flung himself down on the bed and broke into loud sobs.
Aroma tried to talk him out of his despair.
She knew that, whatever might become of anyone else, it was Skybright that he was chiefly concerned about.
-1014 Oh, do get up!
she said.
Whats the use of crying?
I tell you, Skybright will be better off where she is going.
Back at home she will at least be able to have a few days to herself in peace and quiet.
And if you really cant bear to be without her, you have only to wait until Her Ladyships anger has cooled down a bit and then go and ask Her Old Ladyship to have her brought back again.
It shouldnt be difficult.
Her Ladyship was acting in anger.
Probably she had heard someone gossiping about her.
But what heinous crime is Skybright supposed to have committed?
said Bao-yu.
Maybe she isnt, said Aroma.
Maybe Her Ladyship just thinks she is too good-looking.
She probably thinks that anyone who is so good4ooking must be unreliable.
She knows these very beautiful young women are often trouble-makers.
Probably she dislikes Skybright just for being beautiful.
Its better to be a plain, gawky person like me!
Who said that beautiful women are trouble-makers?
said Bao-yu.
There have always been lots and lots of beautiful women who were nothing of the kind.
But never mind all that.
What I cant understand is, how did Mother get to hear about all those private jokes of ours?
No one outside could have told her.
Its very, very strange.
-1014 Look how careless you are, said Aroma.
Once you get a bit excited you are capable of saying anything, regardless of who else is around.
Many and manys the time I have given you a look or made some sign to warn you, but you never notice.
Maybe, said Bao-yu, but tell me this.
How is it that shed heard something damaging about every single person in this apartment except you and Musk and Ripple?
Somewhat taken aback by this question, Aroma hung her head and pondered it for some moments, but she was unable to think of an explanation.
She laughed embarrassedly.
-1014 I agree, it is rather strange.
We three must often have made 539 -1536 careless remarks that could have been used against us.
I wonder why Her Ladyship didnt mention any?
Perhaps shell come back and deal with us three later.
You?
said Bao-yu, laughing incredulously.
The famous paragon of all the virtues?
Theres little danger of her finding fault with you.
Or with those other two, whom you trained and moulded in your own Image.
Parfumee I can understand -1536 she is young and precocious and inclined to use her intelligence for putting other people down, so its hardly surprising that she should be disliked.
Number Fours unpopularity I blame myself for.
It dates from that time when you and I had quarrelled about something and I allowed her to wait on me in your place.
The others must have resented my giving her special treatment, and that, ultimately, must be the reason for what has happened to her today.
But why Skybright?
You and she started together with my grandmother when you were little girls.
Its true she is a bit better-looking than the rest of you, but she has never taken advantage of that fact no one has ever been made to feel threatened by it.
Even her forthrightness - and she could be quite sharp-tongued on occasion - has never, as far as I am aware, given serious offence.
I suppose it must be as you say her good looks have been her undoing.
He concluded by once more bursting into tears.
Mulling over what he had just said, Aroma concluded that it could only mean that he suspected her.
There seemed little point in protesting.
She sighed.
Theres One above who knows the truth of the matter but I dont suppose we shall find out who it was for a while yet.
At all events, crying isnt going to help.
Much better keep your spirits up and next time Her Old Ladyship is feeling cheerful, explain what has happened and ask to have Skybright back again.
You only say that to humour me, said Bao-yu bitterly.
According to you I am to wait until Mothers anger has subsided and after that wait until a favourable opportunity arises for talking to Grandmother but what makes you think that Skybrights illness will wait that long?
Ever since she came into our family as a child she has lived comfortably.
She has 540 -1536 never had to experience a single day of real hardship.
Sending her to that place now is like taking a potted orchid that has just started putting out its first tender spears of growth and setting it down in a pigsty.
Apart from being physically ill, she must be in a terrible state mentally as well.
And she has no kind parents to look after her, dont forget only that worthless cousin and his wife.
I doubt shell last there a fortnight.
I may not even be able to see her again.
Curfew for the common people, but the Prefect can light a fire, said Aroma drily.
What a fuss youd have made if Id said anything so unlucky!
How can you bear to talk so glibly about her dying?
It isnt unlucky to talk about what has already been fore-told, said Bao-yu.
There was a portent of her coming death last spring.
Oh?
said Aroma in some surprise.
What was that?
The crabapple tree in the courtyard here only one half of it budded this year the other side seems to have died.
I knew at the time that something awful must be going to happen now I can see that it must have been a portent of her death.
Aroma laughed out loud.
Forgive me, but I just cant help myself.
You really are an old woman!
And you supposed to be so educated!
How can what happens to trees and plants have anything to do with human beings?
Bao-yu sighed.
What do you know about it?
Not only plants and trees, but all things that live and grow have feelings.
And like us, they are most responsive to those who most appreciate them.
There are plenty of examples from history the juniper tree in front of the temple of Confucius, the milfoil that grows beside his tomb, the cypress in front of Zhu-ge Liangs shrine, the pine-tree that grows in front of Yue Feis grave all those paragons of the vegetable world, mightily endowed with vital essence and able to withstand the ravages of the centuries, have withered and dried up in times of disorder, only to flourish once more when times were prosperous.
In the course of a thousand or more years all of them have died and come 541 -1536 to life again several times over.
If those are not portents, what are they?
On a somewhat less exalted level there are the peonies beside Yang Gui-feis Aloeswood Pavilion, the rhododendrons of the Duan-cheng-lou and the ever green grass on Lady Brights grave.
Surely you cant deny that all these are instances of sympathy between plants and humans?
I see no reason to doubt that our crab-apple tree too was reacting to a human situation.
By the time his idiotic discourse had ended, Aroma did not know whether to laugh or groan.
You really make me angry, she said, comparing Skybright with all those famous people!
What sort of creature do you think she is anyway?
And even if she u so wonderful, you seem to forget that I have precedence over her among your maids.
If the crab-apple is connected with any of us, it ought to be me.
It must mean that I am going to die.
Bao-yu clapped his hand over her mouth.
Now, now, thats enough of that!
Im already worried enough about her as it is, I dont want to have to worry about you as well.
Lets say no more about it.
Three people is quite enough to lose in one day!
Aroma was secretly glad to hear him say this.
If I hadnt said that to stop him, she thought, heaven knows where this nonsense would have ended!
Theres something else I want to discuss with you, said Bao-yu.
Im not quite sure whether youll agree to this or not.
Couldnt we somehow, without letting any of the family know about it, contrive to let her have her things?
Perhaps we could also send her a few strings of whatever money we have managed to save, so that she has got something to buy medicines with.
Could you, for the sake of all your years together, do this for her?
Aroma laughed.
Do you really think I need asking?
What a mean, inhuman sort of person you must think I am!
Ive got her clothes and all her other things piled up over there, ready to send her.
I cant send them now, in broad daylight.
With so many prying eyes about it would be simply asking for trouble.
But as soon as its evening I shall get Mrs Liu to take 542 -1536 them to her.
Ive got several strings of cash that she can take to her as well.
Bao-yu nodded.
I am a paragon of all the virtues, dont forget, said Aroma teasingly.
Its worth spending a bit of money to keep up my reputation!
Bao-yu smiled and said a few words to comfort her.
He was afraid that she might have taken what he said earlier to heart.
That evening, when things had quietened down a bit, he slipped out on his own to the tear corner gate of the Garden and begged one of the old women there to take him to Skybrights house.
At first she refused absolutely to help.
She was too scared, she said.
What would become of her rice-bowl if Lady Wang got to hear of it?
In the end, after he had pleaded with her very insistently and also promised her some money, she agreed to take him.
-1536 Skybright was in the first instance purchased, when she was barely ten years old, by the Chief Steward Lai Da as a little slave-girl for his wife, who often took Skybright with her when she went to work in Rong-guo House.
It was in this way that she first came to the attention of Grandmother Jia.
Grandmother Jia took a great fancy to the beautiful, intelligent little girl, and when Lai Das wife noticed this, she gave Skybright to the old lady as a present.
It was because the old lady thought so highly of Skybright that she later on gave her as a maidservant to her beloved grandson.
Skybright had no recollection of her parents or of the place where she was born.
The only relation she knew of was a cousin somewhat older than herself, said to be her fathers sisters son, who was in bondservice elsewhere.
After her instalment at the mansion she begged Lai Das wife to have this cousin purchased too and find him some employment with the Jias.
The stewardess was touched by the gratitude and respect that Skybright continued to show her after her advancement.
At her insistence Lai Da purchased the cousin, gave him a small job as a buyer, and even provided him with a wife.
543 -880 Unfortunately Skybrights cousin was a timorous, poor spirited creature, whereas the wife Lai Da had chosen for him was a lively and rather attractive young woman.
Finding her husband unable to provide her with what she wanted, she soon took to going out every day, dressed up to the nines, to exercise her charms on the other servants.
She was aided in this by a highly expressive pair of eyes which seldom failed to convey their message.
The men were drawn towards her irresistibly, like flies towards carrion, so that there was seldom any lack of volunteers to fill the gap left by her neglectful husband.
The couple lived in an apartment not far from the rear side gate of the Garden, and it was to this place that Skybright was taken after her dismissal.
The cousins young wife had little stomach for nursing a sick relation, and as soon as she had eaten, was off on her customary rounds, leaving Skybright alone and untended in the outer room.
When Bao-yu arrived at the house, he told the old woman who had brought him to wait at the gate and keep a look-out while he went inside.
Raising the cotton door-curtain he looked into the room.
He could see Skybright at once, lying on an old rush mat on the kang fortunately she still had her own bedding but no one else appeared to be at home, and he wondered for a moment what he should do then, going over to the kang, he plucked timidly at the quilt in which she was wrapped and gently called her name.
His eyes were full of tears.
Skybright, who had been ill to start with, had been made even more so by the detestable things said to her by her cousin and his wife since her arrival.
After coughing through most of the day, she had recently dozed off into a fitful sleep, and it was not until Bao-yu had called her name for the second time that she opened her eyes.
What surprise, delight, sorrow, anguish all mixed in one when she saw who it was!
She gripped his hand tightly in hers, but for a long time she could only sob.
At last she managed to speak.
I didnt think I should ever see you again.
After that she coughed and coughed.
Bao-yu was sobbing now himself.
544 Holy Name, its a good job youve come!
she said.
Could you get me half a cup of tea?
Im so thirsty, but though Ive called and called, no one ever comes.
Bao-yu hurriedly wiped his eyes.
Wheres the tea?
Its over there on the stove, said Skybright.
Bao-yu looked at the brick-and-mud-built stove against the wall.
There was only a sort of blackened earthenware skillet on it that bore no resemblance to a tea-pot.
He found a teacup on the table whose greasy, rancid odour reached his nostrils even before he picked it up.
Having located some water, he washed it twice, rinsed it twice, dried it with his handkerchief, sniffed it it still smelt and half filled it with a dusky, reddish liquid from the skillet.
Was it tea?
He tasted it dubiously.
It had a bitter, acrid taste with only a slight suggestion of tea about it.
Thats tea, said Skybright, who had raised herself on the pillow.
Please let me have it.
You cant expect it to be as good as ours.
Bao-yu handed it to her and she gulped it down greedily as if it were the most delicious nectar.
He watched her with tears running down his cheeks, suddenly ashamed of his own fastidiousness.
If theres anything you want to tell me, he said, youd better tell me now, while theres nobody else about.
What have I got to tell?
said Skybright.
Im living now from day to day and from hour to hour.
I know Im done for it cant be more than four or five days now at the most.
If it werent for one thing, I could die content.
I know Im a bit better-looking than the others, but Ive never tried to make up to you.
Why will they insist that I am some sort of vampire?
Its so unfair.
And now I have so little time left.
I ought not to say this, but if Id known in advance that it would be like this, I might have behaved rather differently.
She began to cry again.
Bao-yu took her hands in his own.
They felt like bundles of dried twigs, so wasted had she become.
She was still wearing a pair of silver bangles on either wrist.
Better take these off, he said he was crying himself as he spoke.
You can put them on again when you are better.
545 He took them off for her and put them under the pillow.
Its a pity about these nails, he said.
It took you such a long time to grow them.
By the time you are better, I expect youll find that quite a lot of them will have broken off.
She wiped her eyes, curled the third and fourth fingers of her left hand back against the side of her mouth and with a supreme effort half bit half tore off the two two-inch lengths of scallion-like nail that projected from them.
Here!
She put the pieces into his hand.
To remind you of me.
Then she reached down inside the bedding and managed, after a great deal of struggling, to take off the old red chemise she was wearing and hold it out to him.
Because of her weakness, the effort of doing this made her pant so much that she could not speak but Bao-yu understood what she wanted.
He removed his outer garment, took off the shirt he was wearing underneath it and laid it over her, and put on the chemise she was holding out to him.
He did not bother to do the buttons up, since it would be hidden anyway beneath his outer garment.
While he was fastening his belt on again, he noticed that she was staring at him, trying to say something.
Help me up!
Even with Bao-yus assistance it cost her a good deal of effort to sit fully upright.
Once she was sitting up, she stretched one of her arms out and tried drawing the shirt on herself.
Bao-yu draped it over her shoulders and eased each of her arms in turn into the sleeves, then gently laid her down again.
If anyone sees that when you get back and asks you whose it is, said Skybright, weeping, theres no need to tell them any lies.
Tell them its mine.
Since Ive got such a bad reputation anyway, I might as well have something to show for it when Im gone!
At that moment the door-curtain was lifted and the cousins wife came into the room, all dazzling smiles.
Very nice!
Ive heard all that you two have been saying.
She directed a bold look at Bao-yu.
And what are you doing, a young master like you, coming to see us servants in our 546 -374 quarters?
Bet you heard I was young and good-looking and came here to flirt with me!
Please, I beg of you, dont speak so loud!
said Bao-yu entreatingly.
I shouldnt really be here, but your cousin was with me for many years I came here to see her because she is ill.
The young woman smiled and nodded approvingly.
Thats right.
They say you have a good heart.
She took him by the hand and pulled him after her into the inner room.
If you dont want me to make a noise, you can easily stop me.
You have only to do one little thing.
She got her backside up onto the kang and drawing him down on top of her, put up her legs and gripped him tightly between them.
This was something totally outside Bao-yus experience.
His heart started pounding wildly, his face turned scarlet, and his whole body began to tremble.
It would have been hard to say what feeling was at that moment uppermost in his mind embarrassment, shame, fear or annoyance.
All he could manage to say was Dont fool about, please!
The young woman leered up at him through half-closed eyes.
Get away with you!
From what Ive been told, youve had plenty of practice with other girls.
What makes you so bashful today all of a sudden?
Bao-yu became even redder.
Please let me go.
If youve got anything to talk about, lets discuss it like reasonable human beings.
Theres an old woman outside there listening.
What do you think you are doing?
Theres no old woman out there, she said.
I saw her when I got back and told her to wait for you at the Garden gate.
Come on!
Ive waited a long time to get my hands on you.
If you wont do what I ask, Ill call out.
Youre a bold one, arent you, coming here!
What will Her Ladyship say if she finds out?
I was listening to you two outside the window for quite a while.
From what I could make out, you and she have nothing between you.
Well, more fool she, if thats the case!
You neednt expect me to be so daft!
She began to get to work on his clothing, while Bao-yu 547 -374 made frantic efforts to pull himself away.
They were still struggling when a voice was heard outside the window asking for Skybright.
The young woman gave a start and let go of Bao-yu.
Bao-yu was so shaken and confused that he had not heard the voice, and Skybright, listening to what was going on in the next room, was so overcome with shame and anger that she had fainted clean away.
This left only the cousins wife to answer the caller - or rather callers, for when she went outside to look, it turned Out to be Cook Liu and Fivey with a bundle containing Skybrights things.
Cook Liu was also holding several strings of cash.
Weve brought these from Miss Aroma for your young lady, she said.
Which room is she in?
The young woman laughed.
This room here.
Where else would we keep her?
As Cook Liu and Fivey went into the outer room, a lurking figure dodged into the inner room at the back.
Cook Liu knew something of the young wifes reputation and assumed that it must be one of her lovers.
Since Skybright appeared to be asleep, she put the things down beside her and hurried out again.
But Fivey had sharper eyes than her mother and had recognized the lurking figure as Bao-yu.
Didnt Miss Aroma say when we were leaving that shed been looking for Master Bao?
she asked her mother.
Goodness, I nearly forgot!
said Cook Liu.
Mrs Song told me just now that she thought shed seen him go out of the side gate.
And there was someone waiting for him outside the gate too, wasnt there?
Theyll be wanting to close presently.
She turned back and asked the young woman if she had seen him.
No, said the cousins wife, beginning to feel nervous.
What would Master Bao be doing at our house?
Hearing her say this, Cook Liu began to go again but Bao-yu, partly because he was afraid of being shut out of the Garden and partly because he feared that the cousins wife might return to the attack if he remained after the visitors had gone, threw discretion to the winds and, lifting up the door-curtain, came rushing out after them.
548 Mrs Liu!
Wait for me!
Well go back together!
Cook Liu was mightily astonished.
My dear young master!
Whatever has brought you to this place?
Bao-yu sped on ahead without replying.
Call him back, Ma!
said Fivey.
Tell him not to be in so much of a hurry.
Hell run into someone if hes not careful and theyll find out what hes been up to.
Theres no need for him to hurry in any case.
That person we saw waiting for him will see to it that the gates kept open for him.
She and her mother ran after Bao-yu to try and catch up with him.
The cousins wife stared after them disconsolately -374 her beautiful young gentleman had got away.
Bao-yu did not stop running until he was inside the Garden gate.
Only then did he feel safe again, though his heart was still beating wildly.
Fortunately no one appeared to have noticed his absence, and when he got back to Green Delights he managed to put Aroma off by saying that he had been visiting Aunt Xue.
Shortly after this, as she was making up his bed, Aroma asked him how they should sleep.
Oh, anyhow, said Bao-yu.
I dont mind.
It should be explained that during the year or two that had elapsed since her unofficial promotion by Lady Wang, Aroma had been taking herself very seriously and no longer, either at night or when they were alone together in the daytime, permitted herself those affectionate intimacies that had been customary between her and Bao-yu in the past.
A slight distance seemed to have grown up between them since their younger, more carefree days.
Partly it was being so much busier that kept her from him for although the most important matters remained outside her control, it was she who organized the sewing and other maids-work, took care of Bao-yus and the junior maids pocket-money for them, attended to their clothing and other equipment, and assumed responsibility for the general maintenance of the apartment.
Partly it was because she had a fear of infecting him for she still continued, though very infrequently, to cough blood.
It was mainly for this last reason that she had for some time 549 -827 now ceased sleeping in the same room.
But Bao-yu was nervous at night and liked to have someone near at hand whom he could call to when he woke up.
Because she knew that Sky-bright was a light sleeper, Aroma entrusted all the night-time duties, like answering him when he called, getting up and making tea for him and so forth, to her, so that it had long since been the custom for Skybright to sleep in the same room with him beside his bed.
Now that Skybright was no longer with him, Aroma made her own bed up beside Bao-yus in Skybrights place.
Observing the somewhat dazed manner in which Bao-yu was conducting himself that evening, Aroma urged him to go to bed early, and as soon as she had got him settled, went to bed herself.
But he seemed very restless.
As she lay in her own bed she could hear him sighing and muttering to himself in his.
This went on until well after midnight.
Only then did he fall silent and appeared to have gone to sleep.
Relieved, Aroma began drifting off herself.
But only for a moment.
Before she had a chance to get fully off to sleep, she heard him call out Skybright!
What is it?
said Aroma, instantly alert again Bao-yu said that he wanted some tea, so she got up and poured him out a cup.
He sighed as she handed it to him.
Im so used to calling her, I forgot that it was you.
Aroma laughed.
The first night she slept with you, you were calling out in your sleep for me.
It took you a while then to get used to the change.
They both lay down again.
Again Bao-yu was restless and continued so for the space of about two hours.
It must have been four oclock before he finally got to sleep.
Just as he was dropping off, Skybright walked into the room looking exactly as she used to do before she was ill. She came right up to the bed and spoke to him.
Enjoy your lives, all of you!
Mine is already over.
Immediately she had said that, she turned round and walked out again.
Bao-yu called out after her.
His calling awoke Aroma, who assumed that he was once more calling Sky- 550 -827 brights name instead of her own from force of habit.
But when she went over to ask him what he wanted, she saw that he was crying.
Skybrights dead, he said.
Aroma laughed.
Dont be ridiculous!
Whatever would anyone think if they heard you say such a thing?
Nevertheless Bao-yu insisted that Skybright was dead and waited impatiently for the daylight when he could send someone to find out the circumstances of her death.
But daylight brought a little maid knocking at the front corner gate of the Garden with a message from Lady Wang.
You must tell Bao-yu to getup immediately and come over to Her Ladyships as soon as he is washed and dressed.
The Master is invited out to a chrysanthemum-viewing, and because he was so pleased with the poem Bao-yu made at the party the other night, he wants to take hi and the other young masters with him.
Have you got that message?
Be as quick as you can, please.
And tell him to hurry.
The Master is in the main room with Her Ladyship.
They are waiting for Bao-yu to come so that they can start their breakfast.
Master Huan is there already, so be quick.
And s6meone take the same message to Master Lan, please.
Yes, yes, said the women, hurriedly buttoning up their clothing, and two of them hurried off to deliver it, one to Green Delights and the other to Sweet-rice Village.
Aroma knew that something unusual must be toward for someone to be knocking so early at the courtyard gate and called to one of the old women to go and find out what it was while she herself got up and put her clothes on.
When she heard the message, she sent someone out for washing-water and roused up Bao-yu.
She told him to wash himself as quickly as possible while she went to fetch him some clothes.
Since it was Jia Zheng he was going out with, she chose his second best, judging his best to be too showy.
As there was now obviously no possibility of following out his original intention, Bao-yu washed and dressed and hurried over to his parents apartment immediately.
When he got there be found Jia Zheng already sipping his wheatmeal tea and 551 apparently in very good humour.
Bao-yu made his morning salutation to his parents after which he in turn was greeted by Jia Huan and Jia Lan.
Jia Zheng ordered the three of them to sit down and drink their wheatmeal tea.
Bao-yu is not as diligent as you two in his schoolwork, he told the two younger boys, but he is much better than you at making up poems and couplets.
No doubt all three of you will be called upon to contribute poems at this place we are going to.
Bao-yu will have to help you out a bit.
This was music indeed in the ears of Lady Wang, who had never before heard her husband praise Bao-yu in such terms.
She waited until Jia Zheng and the boys had gone before getting up to make her morning call on Grandmother Jia but before she could get away, Parfumees foster-mother and two of the other foster-mothers came in saying that there was something they wished to speak to her about.
Ever since Your Ladyship was good enough to let me take Parfumee home with me, said Parfumees foster-mother, shes been refusing to eat and drink and behaving like a crazy girl, and now Nenuphar and Etamine are the same.
The three of them have been carrying on something dreadful, threatening to kill themselves and I dont know what.
All they want, they say, is to shave their hair off and become nuns.
Well, I thought, theyre only children after a day or two theyll get over this.
But not a bit of it two days have gone by already and theyre worse than ever.
Neither words nor blows have an effect on them.
Were all at our wits end.
Weve come to ask Your Ladyship if you will either let them have their way and go into a convent or else deal with them as you see fit and hand them over to somebody else, because we can do nothing with them.
Nonsense!
said Lady Wang impatiently.
Its not for them to decide what is to become of them.
The Buddhist vocation is not to be undertaken on a mere childish caprice.
Give each of them a flogging and see if they misbehave then!
It was the custom for nuns from the various temples which the Jia ladies patronized to visit the mansion over the MidAutumn festival bringing the first-fruits of their offerings.
Euergesia, the prioress of Water-moon Priory, who had come 552 -374 along with the rest, had been invited to stay on for a few days and happened to be at hand during this interview.
This holy old fraud pricked her ears up when she heard of three young persons wanting to become nuns.
A few young novices to wait on her and help about the priory were just what she was looking for.
She set to work on Lady Wang accordingly.
No doubt it is because this is such a blessed household thanks to all Your Ladyships good works that these young peoples hearts have been turned towards the faith, she said.
It is true that the Buddhas gate is not to be entered lightly but it is also written that the Buddhas truth is for all sorts and conditions of men.
And not only men, for when the Blessed Lord made his vow, it was to work for the salvation of all sentient beings.
These three young people have no parents and are far from the place where they were born.
Having had a taste of luxury during their years here with you, yet being born to a lowly fate and trained in a profession that at best is vanity, they cannot but tremble when they think what the future may hold for them.
I believe that is why, out of the midst of this sea of suffering, they have turned towards the light and resolved to abjure the world and its vanities and prepare themselves for the life to come.
That is a noble decision, Your Ladyship.
I dont think you ought to stand in the way of it.
Lady Wang was a good woman at heart and had only opposed the young actresses determination to become nuns because she thought it proceeded from mere childish waywardness and feared that when put to the test they would find the vows of celibacy and abstinence too much for them and fall into mortal sin.
But what the old nun said sounded plausible and besides, she was at this moment very much preoccupied with other matters.
Lady Xing had sent someone over to say that she wanted Ying-chun to spend a few days with her so that she could be exhibited to the representatives of a family seeking her in marriage, and Lady Wang herself was facing a visit from an official match-maker who was coming to discuss the matrimonial prospects of Tan-chun.
She was far too worried by these other matters to be unduly 553 -1414 concerned about the fate of a few entertainers.
The answer she gave Euergesia, therefore, was a favourable one.
Very well then.
Would you be prepared to take them as your disciples?
Now blessings be upon you!
said the old prioress.
It would be a holy thing if you would let me, it would indeed.
Praise his Holy Name!
She pressed her palms together and bowed down almost to the ground.
Lady Wang turned to the three foster-mothers All right, go and ask them.
If they are really serious about this, they can kotow to Mother Euergesia in my presence and formally make themselves her disciples.
The three women went off and presently reappeared, bringing the three girls with them.
Lady Wang questioned each of them closely about her decision and when she was satisfied that they were utterly resolved to go through with it, allowed them to make their kotows to the old nun.
After that they kotowed to her.
Now that she was convinced of their determination and saw that nothing could deflect them from it, she began to feel quite sorry for them and ordered the servants to get out various things to give them.
She also gave several presents to the prioress.
Thus Parfumee, Nenuphar and Etamine left the sinful world behind them and went off with Euergesia to embark on a new life at Water-moon Priory.
What followed thereafter will be related in the following chapter.
CHAPTER 78 Jia Zheng commissions the Ballad of the Winsome Colonel And Bao-yu composes an Invocation to the Hibiscus Spirit After the departure of Euergesia and the three girls, Lady Wang was at last able to make her morning call on Grandmother Jia.
Finding the old lady in excellent humour, she decided that this was as good a time as any to report on her recent activities.
There is a girl in Bao-yus room called Skybright, she said.
She is already of age she has been constantly ill during the past year she gives much more trouble than any of the others and she is lazy.
During her latest spell of sickness, which must have been going on now for the better part of a fortnight, weve had her looked at by the doctor and he says shes got some kind of consumption - a kind that is quite common, apparently, in unmarried girls so Ive sent her back to her own people and told them that we shant be wanting her here again if she gets better, they can find a husband for her themselves.
I also took it upon myself to send away those young actresses.
For one thing, like most people trained in that profession, they use the most appalling language I dont think its very nice for the other girls to be exposed to it.
And for another thing, as we no longer require them to perform for us, which is what they were trained for, I think it is only right that we should let them go.
We have far too many maids as it is.
If Bao-yu or the girls need any more, we can supply them from the regular staff they dont need young actresses to wait on them.
Grandmother Jia nodded.
That sounds quite sensible.
I had been thinking along those lines myself.
About Skybright, though I always thought she 555 was an excellent maid she expressed herself well she was much the best needlewoman I ever had I had been thinking of eventually giving her to Bao-yu to keep.
Im sorry to hear she has changed so much for the worse.
Im sure you were not mistaken in her, said Lady Wang, smiling.
Lets just say that the girl was not destined to be fortunate -.hence this perpetual sickness.
For a growing girl there are eighteen hazards the proverb says.
Quite apart from that, I think these very gifted people are apt to play up a bit, as I am sure you, Mother, with all your rich experience must have noticed.
Three years ago I, too, was thinking about choosing someone permanent for Bao-yu, and to begin with I, too, thought of Skybright as the likeliest choice.
But after watching her very carefully, I came to the conclusion that, although better qualified than the others in so many particulars, she is not really a very dependable person.
For all-round dependability I think Aroma is very much her superior.
I know they say a wife for virtue and a concubine for beauty, but even in choosing a concubine I think the girl with a considerate nature and a sense of responsibility is to be preferred.
Aroma may not be as good-looking as Skybright, but in other respects I should rate her qualifications as a chamber-wife very highly.
Her behaviour is so mature, and yet at the same time she is such a simple, good-natured girl.
During all the years that she has been with Bao-yu she has never once mis-behaved herself in fact, whenever Bao-yu gets into one of his wild or silly moods, she does her best to talk him out of it.
I waited two whole years to see if she was really as good as I thought she was, and when, at the end of all that time, I had found no fault in her, I made a private arrangement to have her maids allowance stopped and two taels paid to her each month out of my own allowance.
Aroma herself was the only person I told about this, because I thought she could do with the encouragement.
I deliberately kept it from everyone else, partly because if Sir Zheng had got to hear about it he would almost certainly have said that Bao-yu was too young for a chamber-wife and that having one would distract him from his studies, and partly because if Bao-yu himself thought of her as a chamber-wife, he would be less inclined to listen to 556 her good advice and would become more ungovernable than ever.
That is the reason, Mother, why I havent told you about this before.
I see, said Grandmother Jia, smiling.
Oh well, thats all right then.
Even better.
Aroma never had much to say for herself, in my recollection.
I always thought her rather a dull little stick.
However, you obviously know her much better than I do.
Im sure you cant be wrong.
I certainly think it very wise of you not to have told Bao-yu himself about this, and I hope all of us here will continue to keep quiet about it.
I am sure you are right in thinking that he is the sort of person who, when he is married, will never listen to a wifes or a concubines advice.
Hes a strange boy.
I dont really understand him.
Ive certainly never known another one like him.
His other kinds of naughtiness I can understand its this passion for spending all his time with maids that I find so hard to make out.
It used at one time to worry me I thought it must be because he had reached puberty and was having experiences with them but after watching him very carefully, I came to the conclusion that it wasnt that at all.
Its very, very strange.
Perhaps he was a maid himself in some past life.
Perhaps he ought to have been a girl.
Lady Wang and the others laughed.
Lady Wang then went on to tell Grandmother Jia how highly Jia Zheng had spoken of Bao-yu that morning and how he had taken Bao-yu and the other two boys with him on an outing.
Grandmother Jia was delighted.
Not long after this Ying-chun appeared, dressed in her going-out clothes, to take leave of Grandmother Jia and Lady Wang before going next-door to stay with Lady Xing.
Xi-feng called in, too, for her morning duty call and stayed to wait on the old lady while she took her lunch and to joke with her for a while after it was finished.
When the old lady had settled herself down for her after-lunch nap, Lady Wang called to Xi-feng to accompany her back to her own apartment.
She asked her whether she had started taking the ginseng pills yet.
No, not yet, Xi-feng told her, because she was still taking the infusions but her aunt was not to worry, because she was now feeling completely better.
Observing that she certainly 557 seemed to have got her old cheerfulness back, her aunt was inclined to believe her.
She told her about her dismissal of Skybright and the other girls.
This led her to another topic.
Why did your Cousin Chai go back home without telling anyone?
Doesnt anyone know?
When I was making my inspection yesterday, I decided to take a look at Wans servants as well.
That new nurse she has got for little Lan is quite unsuitable in fact, I dont like the look of her at all.
I said to Wan, I dont care how you do it, my dear, but you must get rid of that woman at once.
Lan is old enough to do without a nurse now in any case.
He certainly doesnt need a nurse like that one!
I asked her if she knew about Bao-chai.
She said yes, Bao-chai had told her that she was going, but it was only for two or three days, until her mother was better, and then she would be moving in again.
Well I know for a fact that there is nothing much wrong with your aunt a bit of a cough and some back-ache, but then she always gets that at this time of year.
I am sure there is some other reason for her leaving.
Can anyone have offended her?
She is such a serious child.
I should hate to think of anyone offending her after our two families have been getting on so well together all these years.
Who could possibly have offended her?
said Xi-feng, smiling.
I wondered if Bao-yu might have done, said Lady Wang.
He is so careless about what he says, so tactless.
When he gets excited he is capable of saying almost anything.
I dont think you have much to worry about on that account, said Xi-feng.
Bao-yu may behave foolishly in company, but when he is with our girls, or even the maids, he is always extremely considerate.
His greatest anxiety is always how not to offend them.
He is certainly the last person I should expect to hear any of our girls complain about.
I should think Cousin Chais leaving has much more to do with that search we carried out in the Garden the other night.
She would naturally infer from it that the people in the Garden are not trusted and since she knew we would never search her people because of her position here as our guest, she might well conclude that the only way in which she could dear them 558 of suspicion would be to move outside.
Im sure thats why she went to avoid suspicion.
To Lady Wang, too, this seemed the most likely explanation.
She studied the floor thoughtfully for some moments then she had Bao-chai summoned, explained to her what had happened, and assured her that she must not think herself under the least suspicion.
She must move back into the Garden at once and continue living there as before.
Bao-chai smiled courteously but held her ground.
I had been meaning to move out some time ago, Aunt, but did not like to mention it to you because I knew you were so much occupied with other matters.
It was the coincidence of Mammas being poorly and her two most reliable maids both going sick at the same time which decided me to move out when I did.
Now that you know about my leaving, I should like to ask formally for permission to move out my things.
Lady Wang and Xi-feng both laughed.
You are too unbending, said Lady Wang.
Do, please, move in again.
Do not allow a trifle like this to come between us.
Bao-chai smiled.
I assure you, Aunt, you are quite mistaken.
It really isnt because of what you think that I am leaving the Garden.
It is because Mamma has been in rather low spirits lately and theres no one but me for her to rely on during the night.
And besides, Pan is getting married shortly, and there is still a lot of sewing to do and household things to get.
Mamma badly needs to have me at hand all the time to help her with the preparations.
You know how things are in my family, so you know that I am not making this up.
And there is another reason.
Ever since I first moved into the Garden, the little south-east corner gate has been left open.
This was done specially for our convenience, but of course there is nothing to prevent anyone else using it who wants to take a short cut.
No one going through it is ever questioned.
Now suppose the wrong person got in by that way and something awful happened.
It would make it very awkward for all of us.
When I first moved into the Garden it didnt matter much one way or the other if I spent the nights there.
We were all very much 559 younger then and there wasnt so much that needed doing at home.
It seemed better for me to be sewing or playing in the Garden with the other girls than moping at home on my own.
But now we are older it is rather different.
I am sure that the worries you have had during this past year or two have been aggravated by the fact that the Garden is too big to keep all the time under your surveillance.
Any reduction in the number of people living there means some reduction in the number of your worries.
That is why I am not only determined to move permanently out of the Garden myself, Aunt, but would seriously urge you to make whatever other reduction in numbers may be necessary.
You mustnt think that for a great household like yours to retrench would be undignified.
Look how modestly we live nowadays.
It was a very different style we used to live in when I was a little girl.
It was unusual for Bao-chai to speak at such length.
When she had finished, Xi-feng turned with an amused expression to Lady Wang.
I think you will have to let her have her way, Aunt.
You cant force her to move in if she doesnt want to.
Lady Wang nodded.
I find what you say unanswerable, she told Bao-chai.
You will have to do as you think best.
While she was speaking, Bao-yu came in to report that he was back.
Father is still at the party, he said.
He told us to come back now because he was afraid it might be going on much longer and he didnt want us coming back in the dark.
I hope you didnt disgrace yourself, said Lady Wang anxiously.
Not in the least, said Bao-yu.
Look at all the loot weve brought back!
The old women from the inner gate who, as he entered, had relieved his pages of the things they had been carrying, now came forward with them for Lady Wang to inspect.
There were three fans, three fan-pendants, three boxes of writing-brushes, three boxes of ink-sticks, three rosaries and three jade belt-buckles one of everything for each of the three boys.
560 The fans and fan-pendants are from Academician Mei, said Bao-yu, the ink-sticks and brushes are from Vice-President Yang, and the rosaries and buckles are from Under-Secretary Li.
He fished Out a little sandalwood Buddha-charm from inside his jacket.
This is from the Duke of Qing-guo.
He only gave one to me.
Lady Wang questioned him about the other people who had been present and the poems that had been composed.
She told someone to take Bao-yus share of the presents and go with him and the other two boys to see Grandmother Jia.
Grandmother Jia was of course delighted, and Bao-yu found himself having to answer all the same questions over again.
His anxiety to learn about Skybright made him anxious to get away, and after answering a few of them, he told his grandmother that he had been riding rather fast and was aching all over from his ride.
You must go back to your room at once then and change into more comfortable clothes, she said.
Youll feel better when youve had a chance to relax but dont, whatever you do, lie down.
Bao-yu left his grandmothers without more ado.
Musk and Ripple, with two of the junior maids from Green Delights, were waiting for him outside.
Ripple took charge of his share of the presents and she and the other two trotted along after him as he strode into the Garden.
Phew!
Im hot, he said, divesting himself of hat, belt and outer garment as he walked along and handing them to Musk to carry.
He was wearing a gown of lined damask underneath, whose viridian green contrasted strikingly with the flashes of blood-red trouser revealed through the side-slits as he walked along.
Ripple recognized the trousers as Skybrights handiwork.
Objects remind us, she said, quoting from the well-known proverb.
Musk nudged her reprovingly and tried to change the subject.
Yes, she said lightly, the red of the trousers goes very well with the dark green of the gown.
What with them and his blue -black boots and his green y-black hair and his snow-white face he makes quite a picture!
Bao-yu, walking slightly ahead of them, pretended not to 561 have heard but after going only a few steps further, he halted abruptly.
Oh dear, I have to pay a little call!
he said.
What am I going to do?
Thats all right, said Musk.
Were not going to lose you in broad daylight!
She told the two junior maids to go with him.
Ripple and I will come back for you when weve got rid of these.
Cant you wait?
said Bao-yu.
I shant be a moment.
Oh, do let us get rid of these things first!
said Musk.
Whatever must we look like, traipsing after you with all this stuff?
Like the Wardrobe Master and the Clerk of the Ink-horn in a royal procession!
Bao-yu, who had been hoping that they would go, indicated that they might do so and went off with the two junior maids to a secluded corner behind some rocks where he could question them.
Did Aroma send anyone to Skybrights place after I had gone?
Yes, she sent Mamma Song, said one of the girls.
What did Mamma Song say when she got back?
They told her that Skybright was lying with her head back calling out all night long, but in the early morning she stopped calling and closed her eyes.
They said it looked as if she was going.
Who was she calling for?
Bao-yu asked hurriedly.
Her mother, said the girl.
They said she just went on calling Mamma!
Mamma!
all night long.
Didnt she call for anyone else?
said Bao-yu, brushing away a tear.
They didnt mention anyone else, said the girl.
Oh, youre a silly girl!
said Bao-yu impatiently.
Im sure you must have misheard.
She certainly is a silly girl, the other little maid piped up.
A sharp little creature, she had sensed at once what Bao-yu was hoping for and was willing to supply it.
T not only heard exactly what Mrs Song said I even managed to slip out and see Skybright myself.
How did you come to do that?
Bao-yu asked her.
562 Remembering how much kinder than any of the other senior maids Skybright had always been to me, said the girl, I thought to myself that though I couldnt do anything else for her in her trouble, I could at least go to visit her.
Even if someone saw me and reported me to Her Ladyship and I got a beating, it would be worth it after all she had done for me.
So, at the risk of a beating, I stole round to her cousins place to see her.
Although she was so near death, her mind was quite unaltered.
She held my hand and opened her eyes wide when she saw me.
Wheres Bao-yu gone?
she said.
When I told her, she sighed.
Oh, she said, I shant be able to see him, then.
Cant you hold out a bit?
I asked her.
She smiled at me.
No, she said.
You see, Im not really dying Im going to heaven to be a flower-spirit.
The Jade Emperor has given me the job of looking after the flowers.
She said, I have to leave at half-past two to take up the job, and Bao-yu wont be home until a quarter to three, so we shall miss seeing each other by only a quarter of an hour.
Usually when people are dying, King Yama sends his demons to fetch their souls, and if you want to delay a bit, all you have to do is burn a bit of spirit money and make a little offering of some rice and tea, and they will leave you alone for a few minutes while they go after the money and stuff.
But when the heavenly messengers summon you, its different.
You cant keep them waiting for a single moment.
At the time I didnt quite believe her, but when I got back I kept my eye on the clock and sure enough it was exactly a quarter to three, as shed said it would be, when they told us youd got back and we were to go over and wait for you.
You cant read, said Bao-yu, so you wouldnt know about these things.
But there are in fact flower-spirits Ive read about them.
Not only is there a spirit in charge of all the flowers, but there are also lesser spirits in charge of each separate kind of flower.
I wonder which Skybright is going to be.
The little maid quickly glanced round the Garden for inspiration.
Her eye lit on some hibiscus bushes which, this being now the second half of autumn, were already in full bloom.
I asked her myself, she said.
Tell me what kind of 563 flower you are going to be responsible for, I said, so that after you are gone we shall know where and when to make you offerings.
Ill tell you, she said, but you mustnt let anyone else but Bao-yu know about it.
These are immortal matters which are supposed to be kept secret.
Then she told me the hibiscus flower.
Bao-yu found nothing extraordinary in this.
On the contrary, after hearing it, his sorrow turned instantly into delight.
He looked round and smiled happily as his eyes rested on the hibiscus bushes.
Such a flower is worthy to be looked after by such a person!
he said.
I felt sure that someone of her qualities would have work to do in the world.
But - he became sad once more as he reflected - although her sufferings are over, it still means that I shall never see her again.
Then it occurred to him that, though he had failed to be with her at the end, there was nothing to stop him going to see her now and paying his last respects to her body.
After the five or six years she had been with him and all that she had done for him in that time, he surely owed it to her.
He hurried back to carry out this resolve, running into Musk and Ripple on his way.
They had just started out again to look for him.
Back at Green Delights he hurriedly dressed up again and, telling the girls that he was going to pay a call on Dai-yu, slipped out of the Garden and made his way, on his own this time, to the place where he had visited Skybright the day hefore, expecting to find her laid out there in her coffi 1.
Skybright had died not, as the lying maid had said, that afternoon, but early in the morning.
As soon as she had breathed her last, the cousin and his wife had gone to the mansion to tell Lady Wang in the hope of getting some money out of her for the funeral.
Lady Wang had given them ten taels and told them to get the body out of the house as quickly as possible and have it cremated.
The girl died of a consumption, she said.
You mustnt keep the body in the house, whatever you do.
Impressed by this advice, they had hurried off with the money and made arrangements to have the body encoffined 564 and carried to the burning ground outside the city without delay.
Skybrights clothes and jewellery, worth between three and four hundred taels, they kept for themselves a nice little sum to put by for their old age.
When all the arrangements had been completed, they shut up the house and accompanied the hearse outside the city to see the body cremated.
Bao-yu arrived, therefore, to find the house locked up and nobody at home.
Once more frustrated, he stood for some minutes gazing blankly at the door.
Finally, since there was nothing else he could do, he turned round and walked back to the Garden.
The thought of returning to his room was distasteful to him.
He decided to call in at Dai-yus on the way back but Dai-yus maids told him that their mistress was out.
Shes gone to see Miss Bao, they said.
-5947 Bao-ya made his way to All-spice Court.
To his surprise he found it silent and deserted, and when he peeped inside, he could see that it had the empty, cheerless look of an uninhabited house.
He had a vague recollection of having heard some days previously that Bao-chai was thinking of moving out but he had been so busy with homework during the past few days that it had gone out of his mind.
Now it appeared that she really had moved.
A sort of blankness came over him.
Chess had gone.
Picture had gone.
Parfumee and the other four little actresses had gone.
Skybright was dead.
Now, it seemed, Bao-hai and her lot had gone, too.
And though Ying-chun was supposed to have left only temporarily, to judge from the number of visits made by match-makers during the past weeks, it would riot be very long before she was getting married.
The Gardens little society was breaking up.
Oh well, he thought, no good fretting about it now.
Ill go and enjoy Dai-yus company for a while and after that, Ive still got Aroma to go back to.
It looks as if we three will soon be the only ones left.
In that philosophical frame of mind he went back to the Naiads House but Dai-yu had still not returned.
Just as he was wondering where else he could go, a maid from Lady Wangs apartment came up to him with a message from his mother.
565 The Masters back now and wants to see you.
He says hes got a good subject for a poem and you are to come at once.
Bao-yu was obliged to accompany the girl to his mothers apartment but by the time he got there, his father had already gone.
Lady Wang ordered some of her women to accompany him to his fathers study outside.
He found Jia Zheng discussing the highlights of the chrysanthemum-viewing party with his literary gentlemen.
Shortly before the gathering broke up, he was telling them, there was some discussion about an episode from the history of the last dynasty.
It was a story in which the romantic, the edifying, the heroic and the pathetic were all exemplified - indeed, one of the most remarkable stories I have ever heard.
Everyone present agreed that it deserved a poem to commemorate it.
Pray tell us the story, said the literary gentlemen, intrigued.
It seems that there was a member of the Imperial clan called Prince Heng, Jia Zheng began, who had gone out to become Military Governor of Qing-zhou.
As well as being a fanatically keen soldier, the Prince was inordinately fond of female company, and in the free time left over from his official duties, found a way of combining these two interests by recruiting a large number of beautiful young women whom he had trained in military arts.
Every day these young women would be made to engage in mock combat and other warlike exercises for the Princes entertainment.
The most beautiful and also the most militarily accomplished of these young women was a certain Miss Lin, who, because she was the fourth daughter in her family, was known by the name of Fourth Sister Lin.
Prince Heng thought so highly of her that he gave her a colonelcy and put her in command of the whole female troop.
From then on he took to calling her Colonel Winsome or the Winsome Colonel.
How priceless!
exclaimed the literary gentlemen rapturously.
The Winsome Colonel!
What a marvellous combination!
Surely this Prince Heng must have been one of the most eccentrically romantic persons the world has known?
566 -5947 One could certainly call him that, said Jia Zheng.
But there is stranger still to follow.
Stranger still?
said the literary gentlemen with surprise.
Then this must be a very strange tale indeed.
In the second year of his governorship, said Jia Zheng, a horde of bandits, latter-day descendants of the Yellow Turbans and Red Eyebrows of the Han period, swept over the whole of Shantung Province, looting and pillaging as they went.
The Prince, scorning to mobilize fully against an enemy whom he regarded as a mere rabblement of sheep and curs, took the field against them himself at the head of only a light force of cavalry.
But the rebel leadership, by an unexpected combination of cunning and low trickery, defeated him in two successive engagements.
In the second of these the Prince himself died fighting.
In Qing-zhou the civil and military authorities were in a panic.
What could you or I hope to do when the Prince himself has failed?
they asked each other, and began to make plans for yielding up the city to the rebels.
But Fourth Sister Lins reaction to the grim news was to gather her fellow-officers together and address them as follows Our beloved Princes goodness to us was such that we could never have repaid even a small fraction of it as long as we lived.
Now that he has laid down his life for his country, I feel that we in turn ought to lay our lives down for him.
Those who feel as I do, follow me.
Those who do not are free to leave now, while there is time.
We will follow you!
the girls cried with a single voice and that night, under the cover of darkness, they rode out from the walls of Qing-zhou into the midst of the rebel camp.
At first, because the rebels were unprepared, they succeeded in killing and decapitating several of their leaders but it was not long before those in the camp realized that the raiders were a party of women who could easily be overcome if offered determined resistance.
Seizing their weapons and rallying themselves together, they fell upon Fourth Sister Lin and her band with such ferocity that soon the girls heroic 567 vow to die for their Prince was fulfilled, for not a single one of them was left alive.
-5947 The Emperor and the entire Court were deeply affected when news of this was brought to them.
It is to be assumed that a suitable person was then appointed to command operations against the rebels and that the rebel horde melted away at the first appearance of the Imperial forces - we are not concerned with that.
But what of Fourth Sister Lin, gentlemen?
Do you not find her an admirable person?
Admirable indeed!
said the literary gentlemen.
And what a marvellous subject for a poem!
We must all of us try to make one up about her.
One of their number took a writing-brush and inkstone and wrote down the story almost exactly as Jia Zheng had told it, slightly modifying it here and there in the interest of style, to serve as a short preface for their poem.
When he had finished it, he handed it to Jia Zheng for his approval.
Yes, that seems to me exactly as it should be, said Jia Zheng after glancing briefly through it.
It was a preface rather like this one that started off the discussion at our gathering.
An Imperial directive was received at the Department yesterday asking for a search to be made in the records of this and the preceding dynasty for hitherto neglected instances of outstanding merit deserving some posthumous recognition.
No class of persons was to be excluded monks, nuns, beggars, women and girls - all were eligible.
Wherever exceptional merit could be established, a brief account of it was to be forwarded to the Board of Rites for inclusion in the list of recommendations.
The preface they were discussing at our gathering was a copy of the account sent in by our Department to the Board.
It was reading that preface that gave those present the idea that they should write a Winsome Colonel poem in commemoration of Fourth Sister Lins heroic loyalty.
And very right that they should I said the literary gentlemen smilingly.
But what is most admirable of all about this story is the tireless benevolence of the present Court which led to the unearthing of this forgotten heroism.
Surely this is a thing unparalleled in any former age?
The Tang poets line 568 This holy age, when nothing goods omitted, might almost have been written in anticipation of the present reign.
-5947 Indeed!
Jia Zheng nodded gravely.
By this time Jia Huan and Jia Lan had also arrived.
Jia Zheng allowed the three boys to look at the preface and then told them that he wanted a poem from each one of them.
He would award a prize to whoever completed one first and another prize for the best poem.
Jia Huan and Jia Lan had several times recently been called upon to compose in company and so were not unduly nervous on this occasion.
After reading the preface, all three boys went off into separate corners to think.
Jia Lan was the first to finish a poem and Jia Huan, fearful of being outstripped by his young nephew, made haste to follow.
The two of them had already written their poems out while Bao-yu was still thinking.
Jia Zheng and the literary gentlemen decided to look first at what the two younger boys had written.
Jia Lans contribution was in the form of a quatrain.
-1094 Fourth Sister Lin was the Winsome Colonels name She was beautiful and gentle, yet her valour none could tame.
In Qing-zhou where, her Prince to avenge, she threw her life away, The very ground on which she fell is fragrant to this day.
-5947 The literary gentlemen praised the little poem enthusiastically.
For a young boy of his years to produce such a poem is proof of a highly cultured upbringing, they said.
Childish prattle!
Childish prattle!
Jia Zheng laughed deprecatingly.
Still, for one of his tender years it is quite a creditable effort.
Next they read Jia Huans contribution.
It was a Regulated Verse poem in pentameters.
-774 The lovely lady would not sit and grieve For sterner thoughts her warlike breast did fill.
She dried her womans tears and fearless rode -774 Through Qing-zhous gates to be killed and to kill.
However great the odds, she said, I can My debt repay, if not avenge this ill. 569 The inscription graved upon her tomb shall be Here buried lies the worlds fidelity.
-5947 Ah yes!
said the literary gentlemen.
What a difference those few years between them make!
This is quite a different approach.
I suppose its not too bad, said Jia Zheng, but it doesnt really do justice to the subject.
Oh well, as to that -!
said the literary gentlemen.
After all, our young friend is not so very much older than his nephew.
Old heads are not to be expected on young shoulders!
Give them a few more years and I dont doubt we shall have a pair of poets in our midst to rival Ruan Ji and his nephew Ruan Xian!
Come, come, they are not as good as that!
said Jia Zheng, smiling.
They dont study hard enough, thats their trouble.
-5947 He asked Bao-yu how he was getting on.
After all this careful chiselling, Mr Baos poem is sure to be something of quite a different order from these two we have just heard, said the literary gentlemen - one, no doubt, in which the romantic and tragic aspects of the theme will both be fully exploited.
Bao-yu smiled.
I dont think Regulated Verse is quite the right medium for this subject.
It calls for something longer - a song or ballad in the Old Style - to do it justice.
You see!
said the literary gentlemen, some jumping to their feet, some nodding or clapping in their enthusiasm.
We said that his contribution would be quite different!
It is the sign of a good, experienced writer to be able to gauge immediately what form will be most appropriate to the subject.
With a title like this and a preface, clearly what is called for is either a long narrative poem like Bo Ju-yis The Everlasting Remorse or an Old Style ode like Wen Ting-yuns On Hearing Guo Dao-yuan Play the Musical Glasses or Li Hes Return from Gui-ji, in which narrative and lyrical elements combine.
Only the greater freedom of the Old Style allows for the smoother, more flowing development that this subject calls for.
570 -15867 Jia Zheng was of the same opinion.
He took brush and paper and prepared to write.
So be it, then.
Recite your lines, my boy, and I shall take them down for you.
They had better be good after this boastfill preliminary, or I shall beat your bottom!
Bao-yu recited his first line -384 Prince Heng was fond of a pretty face and of martial arts also- Jia Zheng copied the words down and then shook his head over what he had written.
Vulgar and pedestrian!
No, no, it isnt vulgar, said one of the literary gentlemen.
That is what the Ballad Style is like.
Wait and see how it goes on.
-320 All right, well let it pass, said Jia Zheng.
Bao-yu continued.
-1094 So he trained the ladies of his court to ride and draw the bow.
In ravishing songs and beguiling dances the Prince took no delight, But to watch the pike-drill he was fain of fair maids in a row.
-5947 He waited while Jia Zheng finished writing down the lines.
The literary gentlemen professed themselves particularly impressed by the ravishing songs line, claiming to see a quality of rugged strength in it which they deemed highly appropriate in a ballad.
The fourth line, which they called pure narrative, was also, they thought, exactly as it should be.
You shouldnt praise the boy so, said Jia Zheng.
You will turn his head.
Lets see how he manages to develop this in his second stanza.
Bao-yu recited -1094 As he watched them drill, he scarcely saw the clouds of dust arise Twas the lovely Colonels lamplit face that swam before his eyes.
Bravo!
shouted the literary gentlemen.
He scarcely saw the clouds of dust leads us on to the lamplit face of the heroine.
A most ingenious development!
The way every word is used in these two lines is quite masterful!
Bao-yu continued -384 When the rosy lips framed their harsh commands he could smell the mouths sweet breath But the weapons oft shook in the fair white hands, too weak for such exercise.
The literary gentlemen laughed and clapped their hands.
What a wonderful picture!
I think friend Bao must have been among those present at the time.
He saw the white hand shake and smelt the perfume.
How else could he describe it all so vividly?
Bao-yu laughed.
Women drilling, however bold and fierce they might be, could never look quite the same as men.
One can assume the occasional softness creeping in without having had any special experience.
Oh, get on!
said Jia Zheng.
We can do without the comment.
Bao-yu thought a little before beginning the next stanza.
-384 The lotus belt round the Colonels waist in a clove-shaped knot was tied The change of rhyme from eyes to eyed is one example of that smooth, flowing development we were just now talking about, said the literary gentlemen.
Also, this line has just that touch of charm and prettiness that the subject calls for.
I dont agree, said Jia Zheng.
I dont like this line at all.
We have already heard about her mouths sweet breath and her fair white hand in the last stanza.
Why does he need to go on in this strain?
I think it is mere weakness of invention that leads to this piling up of descriptive bric-a-brac.
A long ballad needs a few ornamental, descriptive passages, said Bao-yu, otherwise it would seem too bare.
You are continuing the same kind of description into a new stanza, said Jia Zheng.
When are you going to get on to her warlike side?
If you have another two or three lines of this kind of stuff, its going to seem like drawing legs on a snake!
All right, said Bao-yu.
Ill try to make a quick change to the warlike side and then finish the whole description off in this one stanza.
572 What a genius!
said Jia Zheng sarcastically.
You begin with a line that looks like the first item in a long catalogue, and now you are talking about instant changes and abrupt conclusions.
I think you may find that you have bitten off rather more than you can chew!
Bao-yu hung his head and pondered a while before finally coming out with this line Yet it was not strung pearls that hung from it but the good sword at her side.
-5947 Will that do?
he asked anxiously.
The literary gentlemen banged on the table and cheered.
Well leave it, said Jia Zheng.
Carry on.
If it will do, Ill continue as Ive planned, said Bao-yu.
If not, it would be better to cross it out and Ill try to think of something completely different and develop in another direction.
Jia Zheng shouted at him angrily.
-5947 Hold your tongue, sir!
Do it again if its not good enough, indeed!
How many times do you propose to go on trying?
Ten times?
A hundred?
Save your energy and get on!
Bao-yu resigned himself to developing from the line he had just recited.
He thought for some moments before continning.
When late at night the jousting ended, her courage was quite spent, And her handkerchief with carmine sweat from her streaming face was dyed.
-5947 Thats the end of another stanza, said Jia Zheng.
Now how are you going on?
Bao-yu continued Next year the whole North-east land with rebels was a-run, -384 Like ravening beasts, or swarming bees after the queen has flown A-run is good, said the literary gentlemen.
It is little touches like that that show the master-hand at work.
The narrative style in this stanza is good, too.
Lively.
-5947 Bao-yu continued 573 The Prince led forth the Emperors men the rebel hordes to quell.
He fought them once and he fought them twice, but his army was overthrown.
-1094 A stench of blood upon the wind blighted the standing corn, And on empty tents and an empty camp the setting sun went down.
-384 Twas the rainy time, and sounding rills down the lone green hillsides sped When Prince Heng, his fighting ended, on the battlefield lay dead.
Now rain has washed the white bones clean, but not the blood-soaked grass, And as the moon rises, shivering ghosts stand at each corpses head.
Brilliant!
cried the literary gentlemen.
The narrative style, the imagery, the choice of words are all quite perfect.
But now what about Fourth Sister Lin?
What ingenious new development will bring her back upon the scene?
Bao-yu recited -384 The officers refused to fight for fear they might be killed, And with no defenders, Qing-zhous fate seemed already to be sealed.
-192 But though the men were all afraid, the girls were loyal and true -384 And among them Prince Hengs favourite with especial zeal was filled.
Neatly turned!
said the literary gentlemen.
It took four lines to do it, though, said Jia Zheng.
Too much!
And I expect there is more useless verbiage to follow.
Bao-yu continued -384 Now who the Princes favourite was to you shall be revealed Fourth Sister Lin she was by name, the Winsome Colonel called.
She rallied her companions fair and issued a command, -192 And like a troop of lovely flowers they rode into the field.
-192 Their heavy saddle-cloths are wet with tears of the spring skys woe, And the iron of their armour chills them, as through the cold night they go.
574 -192 Though the outcome may be uncertain they have taken a solemn vow, Whateer befall, before they die, for the Prince to strike a blow.
But what chance against their savage foe had that gallant band?
-192 Like gentle flowers they perished, crushed by a brutal hand.
The horses hooves are fragrant yet that trod them in the mud Near the city walls their poor ghosts flit, where they made their final stand.
-587 A courier riding through the night to the Emperors city came, And all who heard his heavy news with sadness did exclaim.
-192 The Son of Heaven looked aghast when he learned of Qing-zhous fall, And his captains and his counsellors all hung their heads for shame.
-192 The captains and the counsellors and men of high degree Were put to shame by Fourth Sister Lins fidelity.
For Fourth Sister Lin my heart with grief doth swell, And though my song is ended now, my thoughts on her still dwell.
-5947 The literary gentlemen broke into loud acclaim as Bao-yu finished.
It seemed at first as if they might go on indefinitely.
Subsiding at last, they read the whole poem through again from the beginning.
It is certainly a very long poem, said Jia Zheng, smiling, but for all that, I dont think it really does justice to the subject.
He turned to the three boys All right, off you go!
The three of them went off, feeling like condemned prisoners who have suddenly been given a reprieve.
For the two younger ones it was the end of their day a blessed nothingness until bedtime.
But Bao-yu was still grieving for Skybright.
The sight of the hibiscus by the lake reminded him of what the little maid had told him about her.
As he stood gazing sorrowfully at the bushes, an idea suddenly came to him.
Since I wasnt able to see her in her coffin, why dont I pay my last respects to her here, in the presence of her flowers?
575 -5947 He was on the point of kneeling down in front of them when another thought occurred to him.
Thats all very well, but I cant do it just anyhow.
In order to show proper respect I must first make sure that I am dressed correctly.
And I must prepare a little ceremony and make her some sort of offering.
This led to further cogitation.
It says somewhere in the classics, Where there is faith enough and goodwill, duckweed boiled in puddle-water is an offering acceptable to the gods and a dish fit to be set before princes.
Proper respect evidently has nothing to do with the value of the offering.
And I could always write something to read out before I made it.
He began to plan what he would write.
An elegy it would be called.
It would be a bit like one of those long Chu poems - Li sao or The Summons of the Soul- but with elements of other things as well.
And of course a lot of it would be original.
He sat down and began writing it as soon as he got back to his apartment.
As it was to please himself, he could be as wild and extravagant as he liked and compose as quickly as his imagination would let him.
Soon the draft was finished, and he took a piece of white material of the kind they call mermaid silk, which he knew Skybright had been fond of, and after first writing the title on it in large characters -1174 THE SPIRIT OF THE HIBISCUS AN ELEGY AND INVOCATION he copied out the text in a neat kai-shu hand and carried it with him into the Garden.
The little maid who had told him about Skybrights transformation had to follow him with some things for the offering on a tray a cup of tea, some autumn flowers in a vase of water, and some charcoal in a little burner for starting a fire with.
When his solemn bowings and kneelings were over, he hung the silk up on the branches of a hibiscus and began tearfully to read out the words -768 The year being one in the era of Immutable Peace, the month that in which the Sweet odours of hibiscus and cassia compete, the day, a heavy and doleful day, I, most wretched and disconsolate JADE of the House of Green Delights, -107 576 having with due reverence prepared and got together buds of flowers, silk of mermaids, water of the Drenched Blossoms stream and Fung Loo tea all things of little value in themselves, yet sufficient to attest the devotion of a true believer do here offer them up in sacrifice to her that has now, m the Palace of the White God become SPIRIT OF THE HIBISCUS, having power and dominion over the flowers of autumn.
It is now Sixteen years since the BLEST SPIRIT descended into the world of men.
As to her native place and the lineage in which she was born, they were long since forgotten but for five years and eight months of that time she was, in my rising up and lying down, in my washings and combings, in my rest and play, my constant dose companion and helpmate.
It is to be recorded of her that in estimation she was more precious than gold or jade, in nature more pure than ice or snow, in wit more brilliant than the sun or stars, in complexion more beautiful than the moon or than flowers.
Who of the maidens did not admire her accomplishments?
Who among the matrons did not marvel at her sagacity?
But if baleful scritch-owls that hate the heights can cause the kingly eagle to be taken in a net, and rank and stinking weeds, envious of anothers fragrance, can cause the sweet herb of grace to be uprooted, it is not to be thought that a shrinking flower could withstand the whirlwinds blast, or a tender willow-tree be proof against the buffetings of the tempest.
When the envenomed tongue of slander was wagged against her, she pined inwardly with a wasting sickness the red of her cherry lips faded and only sad and plaintive sounds issued out of them the bloom of her apricot cheeks withered and none but lean and haggard looks were to be seen upon them.
Slanders and slights crept from behind every curtain thorns and thistles choked up the doors and windows of her chamber.
Yet truly she had done no infamous thing.
She entered a silent victim into the eternal, a wronged innocent into the everlasting a more notable martyr though but a mere girl to the envy of excellence than he who was drowned at Long Sands a more pitiable sufferer from the peril of plain dealing than he that was slain upon Feather Mountain.
Yet since she stored up her bitterness in silence, none 577 recognized the treasure that was lost in her, cut off so young.
The fair cloud dispersed, leaving no means to trace the beauteous outline of its former shape.
It were a hard thing to hunt out the Isle of the Blest from among the multitudinous islands of the ocean and bring back the immortal herb that should restore her the raft is lost that went to look for it.
It was but yesterday that I painted those delicate smoke black eyebrows and who is there today to warm the cold jade rings for her fingers?
The medicine she drank stands yet upon the stove the tears are still wet on the garment she once wore.
The phoenix has flown and MU S KS vanity-box has burst apart for sorrow the dragon has departed, and RIPPLES comb has broken its teeth for grief.
The magpie has forsaken my chamber it is in vain for the maidens to hang up their needles on Seventh Night and pray for nimble fingers.
My buckle with the love-ducks is broken the seamstress is no more who could repair the silk-work of its girdle.
And this being the season of autumn when the power of metal predominates and the White God is master of the earth, the signs themselves are melancholy.
I wake from dreams of her on a lonely couch and in an empty room.
As the moon veils herself behind the trees of the garden, the moonlight and the sweet form I dreamed of are in the same moment extinguished as the perfume fades from the hangings of my bedchamber, the laboured breath and whispered words I strove to catch at the same time fail silent.
Dew pearls the pavements moss the launderers beat is borne in unceasingly through my casement.
Rain wets the wall-fig a flutes complaint carries uncertainly from a near-by courtyard.
Her sweet name is not extinguished, for the parrot in his cage under the eaves ceases not to repeat it and the crabtree in my courtyard whose half-withering was a foretokening of her fate stands yet her memorial.
But no more shall the sound of her lotus feet betray her at hide-and-seek behind the screen no more will her fingers cull budding orchids for the game of match-my-flower in the garden.
The embroidery silks are thrown aside in a tangle never again will she cut them with her silver scissors.
The sheeny silk lies creased and crumpled never again shall her hot-iron smooth out its perfumed folds.
578 In her last hour, when I might else have gone to her, I was called in haste from the Garden by a Fathers summons when, grieving, I sought to take leave of her abandoned body, I could not see it because it had been removed by a Mothers command and when I was told that her corpse had been consumed, I repented of my jesting vow that we should share the same grave-hole together, for that were now impossible, and that our ashes should commingle, for ash she is already become.
In the burning-ground by the old temple, green ghost-fires flicker when the west wind blows.
On its derelict mounds, scattered bones gleam whitely in the setting sun.
The wind sighs in the tall trees and rustles in the dried-up grasses below.
Gibbons call sadly from tombs that are hidden in the mist, and ghosts flit weeping down the alley-ways between the tombs.
At such times must the young man in his crimson-curtained bed seem most cruelly afflicted at such times must the maiden beneath the yellow earth seem most cruelly ill-fated.
The tears of Ru-nan fall in bloody drops upon the wind, and the complaint of Golden Valley is made to the moon in silence.
Vengeance is for demons and baleful bogles the gentle spirits of maidens are not wont to be jealous, though wronged.
Natheless shall the backbiters not lightly escape her their mouths shall be squeezed in vices the hearts of those cruel harridans shall he ripped for her anger is kindled against them.
Though the bond between us was a slight one, yet can it not easily he broken and because she was ever close to me in my thoughts, I could not forbear to make earnest inquiry concerning her.
Thus it was revealed to me that the God had sent down the banner of his authority and summoned her to his Palace of Flowers, to the end that she who in life was like a flower should in death have dominion over the hibiscus.
At first when I heard the words of the little maid touching this appointment, I thought them fantastical but now that I have pondered them in my heart, I know them to be worthy of perfect credence.
How so?
Did not Ye Fa-shan compel Li Yongs sleeping spirit to compose an epitaph?
And was not the soul of Li He summoned in order that he might write a memorial in heaven?
The circumstances may differ, but the principle is the same.
God chooses his ministers according to their 579 -720 capabilities, else how could they discharge the duties that are required of them?
And who more fit and meet than her to be given this charge that has been laid upon her?
Truly, here at last she has a work that is worthy of her.
-768 And because I would have her descend here in this place, I have composed these verses to invoke her with, fearing that the common speech of mortals might be offensive to her immortal ear.
The Invocation -3456 Alls clearest azure above where her team of white wyverns through the welkin wends, And the world in a haze below as her chryselephantine car to the earth descends.
Her awnings relucent splendour outshines Antares and his starry band, Her guidons and gonfalons go before and the stars of Aquarius guard her on either hand.
Cloudcleaver follows as escort Moondriver gallops to clear the way ahead.
I can hear the creak and trundle of chariot-wheels of her phoenix-figured cars majestic tread.
I can smell the enveloping perfume of her cincture from fragrant stalks of asarum twined, See the dazzle of her dress gleaming with moon-jade ouches, fretted and lined.
Ill strew the altar with lily-of-the-valley leaves and have waterlilies for lamps fed with orchid oil, And in chalices cunningly fashioned from calabash pour rarest metheglin flavoured with penny-royal.
As I fasten my gaze on the clouds methinks I see a faint glimmer of her face -3456 As I strain my ear on the silence I seem to hear a faint echo of her voice.
But she, on a tryst with eternity, brooking no coarctation has abandoned me, cruel, here in the dust to be, Calling on Windlord in vain to drive me up after her to ride side by side with her across the sky.
My heart is all wracked with teen yet it boots not to weep and wail 580 -3456 You are gone now to your long sleep against Natures order no power on earth can prevail.
In the grave-vault secure you rest the bourne after which there is no more transformation.
But to me still in bonds in this hateful wen below O Spirit, succouring come for my consolation!
-1344 O Spirit, come and abide for my consolation!
-774 But what though she is present in this place?
She is girt about with silence she is veiled in a mist of invisibility I cannot see her -587 Only the green wreathed creepers that make her side-screens, And the ranks of tall bullrushes, her guardsmens spears.
The sleepy willow-buds waken as she approaches And the bitter lotus-seeds sweeten as she nears.
The White Virgin waits for her on cliffs of cassia From Orchid Island the water-sprite comes to greet her.
Jade-player plays for her on a little organ, And Cold-keys sweeps the iron spine with his metal beater.
The God of the Mid Peaks consort comes at her bidding The crone of Li Mountain is summoned forth to meet her.
The Luo River turtle brings her his magic offering To the heavenly music wild beasts gambol and prance.
In the deeps of Red River the dragons are humming the melody And in pearl-tree groves the Birds of Paradise dance.
-774 Seeing my reverence and my devoutness of heart notwithstanding that I have neither vessels of gold nor vessels of bronze in which to make my offering she drove forth her chariot from the City of Sunrise to meet me but even now her banners are returning to the Garden of Night.
For a little moment it seemed that the invisible would become visible but murky vapours rose up suddenly between us and we were cut off.
Clouds and mists drifted and drew together, Rain and fog veiled the heavens light Then rolling back, revealed the high stars -587 And earth all radiant in the noon of night.
-880 My mind is in a turmoil, uncertain whether I wake or dream.
I gaze at the sky with sighs of disappointmnent I wait in 581 uncertainty with weeping eyes.
My speech grows silent only the music of the wind in the grove of bamboos is to be beard, and the wing-beats of birds as they fly off startled, and the plopping sounds of fish as they nibble at the surface of the water.
-1536 Blest Spirit, may my lament go up to thee may my rite be acceptable to thee.
-1536 Wuhu aizai!
Receive this offering!
-5947 When he had finished reading, he made a little flame with the burner and set fire to the silk.
Then he poured the tea out on the ground as a libation, scattered the flowers, and emptied the water out of the vase.
He continued to linger there after he had finished, as though unable to tear himself away, and the little maid had to remind him several times that they ought to be getting back.
He had just started to go when a laughing voice called out Stop a minute!
and the maid, turning to look behind her, saw with terror that a female form was stepping out of the bushes.
Help!
she cried.
Its a ghost!
Skybrights spirit really has come back!
Bao-yu looked back too.
But whether or not it was a ghost he saw will be revealed in the following chapter.
CHAPTER 79 Xue Pan finds to his sorrow that he is married to a termagant And Ying-chuns parents betroth her to a Zhong-shan wolf At the end of the last chapter our story had reached a point at which, just as Bao-yu and the little maid were beginning to walk away after completing the sacrifice to Skybright, they were startled by the sound of a human voice coming from the direction of the flowering hibiscus bushes.
When Bao-yu looked, he saw that the person who had called out was Dai-yu.
She advanced towards him smiling.
A highly original elegy!
It deserves to have a permanent place in literature alongside the Elegy for the Shamans Daughter by Han-dan Chun!
Bao-yu blushed and laughed sheepishly.
Most elegies one sees are so stale and derivative, I thought Id try my hand at writing something a bit different.
It was only for my own amusement I hadnt intended that anyone else should hear it.
Perhaps now that you have heard it, you will let me know of any glaring errors you may have noticed and help me to correct them.
Where is the original text?
said Dai-yu.
I should need to have a careful look at the text first before venturing on any criticism.
It was such a long piece, I could barely make out what most of it was about.
There were a couple of lines somewhere near the middle that caught my attention The young man in his crimson-curtained bed must seem most cruelly afflicted And the maiden beneath the yellow earth must seem most cruelly ill-fated.
The general sentiment is all right, but I thought crimson- 583 curtained bed a trifle shop-worn.
I dont see why you used that image when there is a much better one to hand.
Oh, whats that?
said Bao-yu.
Weve all got this rose-coloured haze diaphene in our windows, said Dai-yu.
Instead of the young man in his crimson-curtained bed, why not say the young man at his rosy-misted casement?
Bao-yu stamped his foot and laughed delightedly.
Excellent!
How clever of you to have thought of it!
It only goes to show that there is always something to hand if only one will take the trouble to look.
Stupid people like me fail to think of the obvious.
Actually though, I havent got that sort of gauze in my windows so though rosy-misted casement is a great improvement, I dont think I had better use it.
It would be fine for you to use it, but I think if I did it would be a bit presumptuous.
But why?
said Dai-yu, smiling.
My window is your window.
It is unfriendly to be so punctilious.
Look at the ancients who used to lend furs and horses and feel no resentment when they came back the worse for wear.
And that was to mere acquaintances we two are members of the same family.
I agree with you that one ought to share with ones friends, said Bao-yu, and not only furs and horses, but even more precious things if one has them.
But for a mere male to arrogate to himself what properly belongs to you girls would be quite a different matter.
It would be better to alter young man and maiden and let it be your elegy.
After all, you were always very well-disposed towards Skybright.
Id rather give the elegy to someone else than throw away your rosy-misted casement.
Lets make it The mistress by her rosy-misted casement must seem most cruelly afflicted And the maid beneath the yellow earth must seem most cruelly ill-fated.
I should be very happy to alter it in that way, even though it would mean that the elegy would cease to have anything to do with me.
584 She wasnt my maid, said Dai-yu.
It doesnt make sense.
Besides, mistress and maid are such an unpoetical combination.
I might want to use this version when Nightingale is dead, but that wont be for a long while yet, I imagine.
Come now, its not very nice to talk about Nightingale dying, said Bao-yu, laughing.
You started it, said Dai-yu.
I know what, said Bao-yu.
Ive got a still better solution.
Why dont we just say I by my rosy-misted casement seem most cruelly afflicted And you beneath the yellow earth seem most cruelly ill-fated?
Dai-yu momentarily changed colour yet though the words filled her with an almost unbearable feeling of premonitory dread, she masked it with a smile and nodded approvingly at his suggestion.
Yes, thats a great improvement.
Better not tamper with the words any more or you will spoil them.
You ought in any case to be getting back now.
Im sure you must have more important things to attend to.
When I saw your mother just now, she was briefing someone to tell you that you are to go to your Aunt Xings place first thing tomorrow morning.
It seems that your Cousin Yings betrothal has been decided on.
I expect they want you there for the ceremony.
Whats the hurry?
said Bao-yu, a trifle pettishly.
Ive not been feeling particularly well lately.
I may not be well enough to go there tomorrow.
How typical!
said Dai-yu.
I should try to grow out of these childish ways if I were you.
You are getting too old- She broke off in a fit of coughing.
Bao-yu at once became concerned about her.
Theres a nasty wind here.
I dont know why we are standing around in the cold like this.
Wed better be getting back now.
Theres no sense in making ourselves ill.
I ought to be going back now in any case, said Dai-yu.
Its time I went to bed.
Well see each other again tomorrow.
She began to walk away.
Bao-yu began gloomily walking off in the opposite direction.
Suddenly it occurred to him that 585 Dai-yu was unaccompanied and he told the little maid to run after her and see her back to her apartment.
Back at Green Delights he found some old women with a message from his mother.
It was as Dai-yu had said.
He was to go over first thing next morning to his Uncle Shes house.
The family that Jia She was proposing to marry his daughter into was called Sun.
They were a Da-tong family whose menfolk had all, for several generations, been Army officers.
A former head of the family had placed himself under the patronage of the Ning and Rong brothers, so their claim to a special relationship with the Jia family was a strong One.
Only one member of the family was at present living in the capital, a young man called Sun Shao-zu who had been given the post of Military Provost in the metropolitan garrison as an hereditary entitlement.
He was a tall, powerfully-built, impressive-looking young man he drew a good bow, had a good seat on a horse, and knew how to bear himself well in company and please those whom it was important to please.
Still under thirty and with his familys not inconsiderable wealth behind him, he had excellent prospects.
Already the War Department had marked him out for promotion.
And he was unmarried.
From every point of view - the special relationship between their two houses, the Sun familys wealth, and the personality of the young man himself - Jia She regarded this as being the almost perfect match and informed Grandmother Jia of his choice.
Grandmother Jia by no means shared his enthusiasm however, after reflecting that the couplings of young people are to a large extent fated and that, as Jia She was after all the girls father, it was not really for her to interfere, she made some neutral response such as I see or Oh, are you?
and left it at that.
Jia Zheng felt a much more positive antipathy to the match.
He detested the Suns.
Though the connection between the two families was a long-standing one, it had come about because Sun Shao-zus grandfather, who had been the worst possible sort of social climber, had wormed his way into the patronage of Jia Zhengs grandfather and great-uncle for the 586 sole purpose of concluding some dubious business that he could not have brought off on his own.
In Jia Zhengs view they lacked both education and breeding.
He spoke to Jia She on two separate occasions advising him very strongly against the match but as Jia She refused to take the slightest bit of notice, there was nothing much he could do.
Bao-yu had never met Sun Shao-zu before.
Obliged to do so at his uncles place next day and to make such small-talk as he was capable of, he was appalled, in the course of conversation, to discover just how soon the marriage was to be it seemed that Ying-chun would be going to her husbands house before the end of that year.
When some time later Lady Ying came over to tell Grandmother Jia that she now wanted to move Ying-chun out of the Garden for good, he became even more depressed.
That strange apathy they had observed in him on previous occasions again came over him.
The news that Ying-chun would be taking four maids with her to the Sun household provoked some stamping and groans and the remark that five more decent people were now lost to the world but it was only a momentary outburst.
He took to wandering about for hours on end in the neighbourhood of Amaryllis Eyot, now shuttered and forlorn and with only one or two women of the night-watch on duty in it.
The very reeds and knotgrass along its banks and the caltrops and pondweed in the water seemed to have taken on a wilting, dejected look, as if they too were missing the presence of their former tenant.
All the charm and colour which had once endeared the spot to him seemed now to have abandoned it.
So strong was this feeling, that it eventually began forming itself into a poem, the words of which came almost unbidden to his lips.
The pools pink -petalled lotus crowns have gone, By one nights nipping wind of autumn blown Like stricken mourners, knotgrass and caltrop-heads Under the weight of frost and dew bow down And the board whose Go-stones clicked the long day through With mud of sluttish swallows is blotched brown.
Old poets for parted friends made such a din What grief must mine be then for closest kin?
587 Just as he had finished reciting this poem, Bao-yu heard a laugh behind him.
What are you mooning about for this time?
Bao-yu glanced back and saw that it was Caltrop.
He turned to greet her.
My dear Caltrop!
What brings you here today?
You are becoming quite a stranger in this Garden.
Caltrop clapped her hands as if she found his question a great joke.
I am always longing to come here, she said, but now that your Cousin Pan is home again, I am no longer a free agent.
Just now Mrs Xue was trying to get hold of Mrs Lian and they told her that she was in the Garden.
I asked for the job of going to look for her simply as an excuse for coming here.
I have just seen Mrs Lians maid and she told me that her mistress is with Mrs Zhu in Sweet-rice Village.
Im on my way there now.
Tell me, how is Aroma these days?
And how was it that Skybright died so suddenly?
What was wrong with her?
And Miss Ying - she moved out very suddenly, didnt she?
Just look at this place, it already looks deserted!
Bao-yu did his best to answer her.
He also invited her to accompany him back to Green Delights and have some tea there.
I cant at the moment, said Caltrop.
Wait till Ive seen Mrs Lian and given her my message and Ill come and see you then.
Whats this important message that you are in such a hurry to give her?
said Bao-yu.
It has to do with your Cousin Pan getting married.
I see, said Bao-yu.
Who did they finally settle on?
They seemed to be wrangling about it for months.
It seemed to be Miss Zhang one day, Miss Li the next, and the day after that Miss Wang.
One wondered what the unfortunate girls had done to deserve being considered for such a fate.
Well you can forget about them now, said Caltrop, because its all been settled.
What family does the one theyve chosen belong to?
said Bao-yu.
A family that was related to our family by marriage once 588 before, said Caltrop.
Your Cousin Pan called in on them last year during his travels.
They are Imperial Purveyors like us, registered with the Ministry of Finance, and one of the wealthiest families in the capital.
All your folk here seemed to have heard of them when we told them.
In fact everyone in the city, from Imperial Princes to shopkeepers, has heard of the Cassia Xias.
Oh, said Bao-yu.
Why do they call them that?
They are, as I say, very, very rich, said Caltrop, and they own a great deal of land.
Several hundred acres of their land are devoted just to growing cassia alone.
All the cassia sold in shops in the city is supplied by them, and all the cassia, both cut flowers and potted plants, on display in the Palace.
Thats how they got the nickname.
Old Mr Xia that used to be head of the business is dead now.
Theres only his widow left and a young Miss Xia.
No son.
Its sad to think that the family may die out.
Spare your sorrow, Said Bao-yu.
What about this young lady?
Why did Mr Xue take a fancy to her?
Partly I suppose it was because they were destined for each other and partly it was a case of beauty in the eye of the beholder, said Caltrop smiling.
Years ago when they were little and their two families were often visiting each other, your cousin and Miss Xia used to play together and call each others parents Auntie and Uncle.
When your cousin went to call on them last year, Mrs Xia, having no son of her own and seeing him now for the first time as a grown-up man, felt more as if she was welcoming a long-lost son.
She was quite overcome, laughing and crying by turns and of course she insisted that he and her daughter should see each other.
Well it seems that the daughter has grown into a great beauty, and is educated, too, having been taught by a private tutor.
Your cousin was quite bowled over.
Mrs Xia even had the older men from the shop who were travelling with your cousin to stay with her.
They must have spent three or four days in her house.
Shed like to have kept them even longer and they had quite a job persuading her that they needed to be getting back.
When they did get back, your cousin could speak of nothing else.
Almost as soon as hed set foot in the door he was telling 589 Mrs Xue that she must get him the young lady for his wife.
Mrs Xue was quite agreeable.
Shed seen Miss Xia when she was a little girl, and she knew the families were well-matched.
So after talking it over with Her Ladyship and Mrs Lian, she sent someone to see Mrs Xia about the betr6thal and it was settled almost immediately.
The only snag is, theyve fixed the date for the wedding a bit on the early side, which means a terrible rush to get ready.
Still, Im longing for her to be here.
Think of it another person to write poetry with!
Hmn, maybe, said Bao-yu.
All the same, I am a bit worried for you.
What do you mean?
said Caltrop.
Im afraid I dont understand you.
I should have thought it was obvious enough, said Bao- yu.
Isnt there a fear that if somebody else appears on the scene Cousin Pan will lose interest in you?
Caltrops face reddened and she stared back at him coldly.
What sort of talk is that?
I used to think that we respected each other, you and I.
Now I am beginning to understand what people mean when they say that you are the kind of person with whom it is impossible to be friendly.
She turned on her heel and walked away, giving him no chance to reply.
A sense of desolation came over Bao-yu.
It was as if a part of him had been irretrievably lost.
For some minutes he stood vacantly staring after her, like an idiot.
Returning at last in great dejection to Green Delights, he shortly afterwards went to bed.
But he did not sleep well that night.
Several times in the course of it he called out Skybrights name in his sleep or woke up in terror from some frightful dream.
His body next morning was feverish and he seemed to have lost all appetite for food and drink.
The events of the past few weeks - the raid on the Garden, Chesss dismissal, Ying-chuns departure, Skybrights death and all the attendant humiliation, shock and grief had been too much for him.
They now combined with the effects of the chill he had taken in his recent loiterings in the autumnal Garden to lay him on his back for several weeks.
Grandmother Jia came over daily to Gteen Delights to visit him 590 -1344 and Lady Wang began to regret that her concern about Skybright had caused her to deal with him so harshly.
However, she gave no outward indication of this change of heart beyond renewing her orders to the womenservants to take special care of him.
Twice every day the doctor called to take his pulses and.
supervise his dosing.
It was a whole month before he began to show signs of improvement, and even then the doctor insisted that.
he would require a hundred days of convalescence before he could return to a normal diet or be allowed to set foot outside his courtyard.
The restraints of this period of convalescence, during which all his amusements had to be taken inside his own room, soon proved extremely irksome.
By the time forty or fifty of the hundred days had gone by, he was already fairly exploding with impatience but all his pleading and all the ruses he adopted to get the sentence altered were in vain.
Both Grandmother Jia and Lady Wang were adamant.
Resigned at last to another fifty days of confinement, he concentrated his energies on thinking up ever more ingenious and outrageous ways in which he and his maids could pass the time.
News reached him in his confinement of the superb plays and banquets with which Xue Pan celebrated the arrival of his new bride.
Everyone said she was good-looking, and not only that, but literate and able to write a tolerable hand.
Bao-yu would have given anything to go over and meet her but of course he could not.
Not long after that came news of Ying-chuns wedding, and Bao-yu realized with a pang that the affectionate, brother-and-sister-like relationship of their childhood years was now at an end from now on, even if they ever met, they would have to be formal and distant with each other.
It made him doubly despondent when he reflected that he had not even been able to see her before she left.
However, he decided to keep his troubles to himself.
For the time being he continued to concentrate on thinking up new ways of passing the time.
At least there was one good thing about his confinement he no longer had Jia Zheng urging him and threatening him about his studies.
During those hundred days of convalescence he and the maids all but took Green Delights apart.
No form of 591 -347 diversion was too wild or hare-brained for him to try, and things were done then that cannot have been thought of before or since.
We will not tax the readers credulity by attempting to describe them.
-1344 After delivering her snub for what she mistakenly believed to be a deliberate rudeness, Caltrop decided that in future it would be best to keep away from Bao-yu as much as possible, even to the extent of avoiding visits to the Garden altogether.
This was not difficult, since she was at the time fully occupied with preparations for Xue Pans wedding.
Caltrop had persuaded herself that when there was another woman in the house - someone who would take a share of the responsibilities and whose authority she herself could fall back on - life would be somehow easier for her than it was at present.
The young lady Xue Pan was marrying was said to be not only beautiful but educated it followed, in Caltrops reasoning, that she must be gentle and ladylike as well.
Caltrop awaited her arrival even more impatiently than Xue Pan, and resolved to serve her, when she came, with all the devotion and care of which she was capable.
The young lady of whom Caltrop entertained such high expectations was still only seventeen.
It is true that she was not at all bad-looking she could even read quite a number of words and if subtle deviousness of character had been an examinable qualification, she might have come out a good second to Xi-feng.
Her chief drawback sprang from the fact that she had lost her father at a very early age and as her widowed mother had no other child of her own and doted on her excessively, she had been thoroughly spoiled.
By treating her every whim as law and gainsaying her nothing, her mother had turned her into a monster.
In her own estimation Miss Xia was a bodhisattva all other creatures were as dust beneath her feet.
The exterior she presented to the world made one think of the flowers in spring underneath it there were lightnings and tornadoes.
At home, in the bosom of the family, her maids learned to gauge the severity of her tantrums if she was only slightly vexed, she would curse them if she was 592 gravely displeased, they would be beaten.
As for her views on matrimony Miss Xia - or Xia Jin-gui to give her her full name - considered that if she wanted to be mistress in her own house, it behoved her to put her maidenly modesty and the gentleness that was habitual with her aside and show a little authority.
It would be necessary to keep the others in their place.
Xue Pan in particular, because of his wilfulness and intransigence, must be broken in as quickly as possible, or she would never be able to establish her dominion and plant her flag in this new territory.
The discovery that there was a beautiful and intelligent young concubine in this household she was entering aroused feelings in her akin to those expressed by the founder of the Song dynasty when he likened the world to a bedroom and declared that none but he should snore in it.
Because of her name Jin-gui, which means cassia and the abundance of cassia-trees cultivated by her family, Xia Jin-gui had always insisted on strict avoidance of the syllables jin and gui and the word cassia by her maids and any other inferiors who had to do with her.
Of course, cassiaflowers had from time to time to be referred to somehow or other, so, bearing in mind the myth about the cassia-tree that grows beside the palace of Chang E in the moon, she decreed that cassia should always be referred to in her presence as Chang Es flower.
The notion that in doing this she was in some way conferring on herself the status of a moon-goddess was perhaps not entirely absent from her mind.
At all events, the luckless maid who carelessly let out a jin or a gui in her presence or who was incautious enough to utter the dread word cassia was in for a savage beating and would probably lose her pay for a month or two as well.
Now Xue Pan was one of those fickle natures always ready to be off with the old love and on with the new and in spite of all his bluster, he was only pot-valiant, having little stamina, or stomach either, for a long-drawn-out trial of strength.
While the novelty of his marriage still lasted, he was, in any case, only too willing to defer in everything to his beautiful young bride.
Jin-gui quickly grasped what sort of person she had to deal with and exploited her advantage to 593 -347 the utmost.
During the first month of their marriage things stood about equally between them, but by the end of the second month Jin-guis star was definitely in the ascendant.
One day, after drinking rather more than was good for him, Xue Pan went to see Jin-gui about something he wanted them both to do.
On meeting with determined opposition to his proposal, he finally lost patience with her and, after some angry shouting, walked out on her in a temper.
Jin-gui wept abandonedly, refused to eat or drink, and eventually succeeded in persuading everyone that she was ill. A doctor was summoned who pronounced her to be suffering from a collision of blood and air and prescribed a lenitive medicine to ease the clogged passages of the breath.
Aunt Xue gave Xue Pan a furious dressing-down.
Youre a married man now and soon youll be a father.
I dont know how you can carry on like this.
Heres a girl as rare as a phoenix chick, a beautiful, delicate creature, reared up with I dont know how much loving care by her family -they only let her marry you because they thought you had enough human decency to look after her properly - and what do you do?
Instead of making an effort to control yourself and settling down to live in peace and harmony with her as a husband ought to do, you carry on just as you always did, drinking too much and treating the girl like a barbarian.
So now we have to spend money on expensive doctors bills and put up with this quite unnecessary anxiety, all because of you.
Xue Pan felt thoroughly remorseful after this lecture and went back to Jin-gui to try and make it up with her.
But Jin-gui had heard the lecture too and was encouraged by it to behave even more outrageously than before.
Xue Pans pacific overtures were ignored.
He had to humble himself still further.
It took a fortnight of patient wheedling to talk his wife into a more satisfactory frame of mind.
By that time the selfassurance that had once been characteristic of him was very much in abeyance.
Having already, in this first encounter, caused her husband to lower his colours and at the same time discovered that her mother-in-law was harmless, Jin-gui began pressing forwards in quest of yet further victories.
At first she would do no more 594 -347 than consolidate her ascendancy over Xue Pan then, using her feminine charms to make him her instrument, she would extend her dominion over Aunt Xue and finally Bao-chai too should be brought under her control.
But Bao-chai saw through her sister-in-laws little game very quickly and was able to meet ruse with ruse - even, by means of an occasional quiet but well-placed remark, to give her ambitions some check.
Finding that she was not to be taken with cunning, Jin-gui began looking for occasions for a direct confrontation with her but as Bao-chai was equally careful not to give her any, she was for the time being obliged, albeit reluctantly, to treat her with respect.
One day, having nothing better to do, Jin-gui engaged Caltrop in conversation.
When, in answer to her questions, Caltrop told her that she had no recollection of her home and parents, Jin-gui was displeased.
She felt sure that Caltrop knew really but was withholding the information out of malice.
Who gave you the name Caltrop?
she asked her.
Miss Bao, said Caltrop.
Jin-gui sneered.
People are always saying how clever your Miss Bao is.
I cant see that she showed much cleverness in choosing you that name.
If you say that of Miss Bao, said Caltrop warmly, it must be because you have never had occasion to test her knowledge.
Even Sir Zheng has often spoken admiringly of Miss Baos learning.
-384 Jin-guis reaction to that remark will be related in the chapter which follows.
CHAPTER 80 Unfortunate Caltrop is battered by a philandering husband And One Plaster Wang prescribes for an insufferable wife Jin-gui reacted to Caltrops defence of Bao-chais intelligence with a toss of the head, a scornful curl of the lip and a couple of loud, contemptuous sniffs.
The flowers that girls are named after are supposed to be beautiful, sweet-smelling ones.
What is there beautiful or sweet-smelling about a caltrop-flower?
If youre going to call caltrop-flowers sweet-smelling, then what are you going to say of the flowers that are really fragrant?
Its a ridiculous choice for a name.
But caltrop-flowers are sweet-smelling, said Caltrop A lot of water-plants are.
Even lotus-leaves and lotus-pods have a certain fragrance - not to be compared with the scent of flowers, perhaps but in very still weather, especially very early in the morning or very late at night, they have a delicious, cool fragrance that is in some ways superior to that of flowers.
Even caltrops themselves and cocks heads and the roots and leaves of reed-grass have a lovely fresh scent after dew or rain it makes you feel good just to smell it To hear you speak, said Jin-gui, anyone would think that orchid and cassia were not particularly fragrant.
Caltrop, warming to the argument, momentarily forgot Jin-guis taboo.
Ah now, orchid and cassia are quite different, she began but before she could get any further, Moonbeam was pointing a finger in her face and crowing over her in malicious triumph Youll catch it now!
Thats the mistresss name youve just said.
Caltrop was overcome with confusion and hurriedly apologized for her lapse.
596 Im truly sorry, madam.
It was a slip of the tongue.
I hope you wont hold it against me.
Jin-gui smiled magnanimously.
Oh, that doesnt matter.
You dont need to worry about that.
About this name of yours, though I really dont think that Caltrop is very appropriate.
I should like to change it, but I dont know whether you would be willing to let me.
Oh, madam, what a thing to say!
said Caltrop, smiling.
I am your chattel, to do with exactly as you wish who am I to be willing or unwilling?
If you wish to change my name, my name already is whatever you wish to change it to!
Jin-gui smiled, somewhat unpleasantly.
You may say that, but I fear your Miss Bao may be rather less happy about it.
Ah no, madam.
You see, when I was bought by the family, I used first to work for Mrs Xue thats how Miss Bao came to give me my name, not because I was Miss Baos own maid.
Then after that I served the master.
Miss Bao has nothing to do with me - especially now you are here.
In any case, shes a very sensible young lady - not at all the sort of person to make a fuss about a little thing like this.
Very well, said Jin-gui in that case, since a water-lily is a much more appropriate flower to name someone after than a caltrop, I think we ought to call you Lily.
Very good, madam, let that be my name then, said Caltrop, smiling.
Lily she became then from that moment.
Bao-chai, when she heard about it, appeared totally unconcerned.
Xue Pan was in some respects like the general of old in whom conquest did but breed appetite for further conquest, for when, after his marriage to Jin-gui, he discovered that she had an attractive, rather coquettish maid called Moonbeam, he was continually calling to her to bring him things -cups of tea and the like - so as to have an opportunity of flirting with her.
Moonbeam perfectly well understood what he was up to but had to behave circumspectly from fear of Jin-gui, whom she studied carefully for some sign which would indicate how she wanted her to respond.
597 Jin-gui had indeed noticed Xue Pans interest in her maid and reasoned within herself as follows.
Ive been wanting to deal with Caltrop, but so far havent found a way of getting at her.
Since hes already taken a fancy to Moonbeam, I might just as well let him have Moonbeam, because hes sure to grow cooler towards Caltrop as a consequence and I shall be able to take advantage of that in order to get rid of Caltrop and with Caltrop out of the way, settling Moonbeams hash ought to be easy, because Moonbeam is my own servant.
Having decided on a strategy, she had only to await a suitable opportunity of putting it into practice.
Such an opportunity occurred one evening when Xue Pan, having drunk himself into a state of cheerful inebriation, called as was his wont to Moonbeam to bring him some tea.
while Moonbeam was handing him the cup, he deliberately gave her fingers a squeeze Moonbeam, with a very unnatural affectation of modesty, drew back her hand and since neither of them had their minds on what they were doing, the cup crashed to the floor, splashing hot tea over Moonbeams skirt and everything else round about.
Xue Pan tried to cover up his embarrassment by pretending that Moonbeam had not handed him the cup properly, while Moonbeam for her part said that the master had not taken a proper hold.
Jin-gui hooted at them contemptuously.
You two really are a comedy!
You must think Im an idiot.
Xue Pan hung his head and laughed sheepishly and Moonbeam fled blushing from the room when, not long after this, it was time to go to bed, Jin-gui tried to turn Xue Pan out of the bedroom and make him sleep elsewhere.
She said she was tired of seeing him go around all the time looking as if he was wasting away with passion.
Xue Pan smiled foolishly and said nothing.
If you want to do something, why dont you tell me?
she said.
All this groping in corners will get you nowhere.
Encouraged by her words and fortified by what he had drunk against any feeling of shame, he knelt down on the bed-covers beside her and seized her hand.
598 -15947 Listen, lover, he said if you will let me have your Moonbeam, Ill give you anything you ask for - anything at all.
If its human brains you want, I shall see that you have them.
what nonsense you talk!
said Jin-gui.
what do I care who you go to bed with?
Just dont make a fool of yourself by carrying on in front of the others, thats all I ask.
Xue Pan was so pleased and grateful that it seemed he would never stop thanking her.
That night he performed his conjugal duties with exemplary thoroughness.
Every sinew was strained to give Jin-gui pleasure.
He did not go out next morning, but hung around at home, waiting for an opportunity of exploiting his new-found licence.
A little after midday Jin-gui rather pointedly went out in order to leave the coast dear.
Xue Pan lost no time in setting to work on Moonbeam, who, since she now had a pretty good idea of her mistresss intentions, put up only a token resistance to his advances.
Carnal congress seemed imminent.
But Jin-gui had been waiting for this moment only in order to frustrate it.
Jin-gui had a maid called Orfie who had been with her in her mothers house since she was a child.
Orfie had lost both her patents when she was little and had no one else to look after her, so when she first entered service with the Xias, she was invariably referred to as the little orphan.
Her name Orfie was simply a convenient contraction of this.
Orfies duties were normally of a rough and menial kind, but on this occasion she was employed by her mistress on a task requiring some finesse.
Orfie, said Jin-gui, do you think you could tell Lily to fetch my handkerchief from my room and bring it to me?
You neednt let her know that it was I who sent you.
Orfie went off to look for Caltrop.
Miss Lily, she said when she had found her, the mistress has left her handkerchief in her room.
Why dont you go and get it for her?
Caltrop had recently been puzzled by Jin-guis hostility, and, in her efforts to overcome it, was constantly thinking of things that she could do to please her.
Since Orfies suggestion seemed to offer a means of winning favour, she sped off 599 without a second thought to do the errand, bursting into the room at the very moment when Xue Pan and Moonbeam were in the interesting situation we have just described.
She turned back, blushing to the tips of her ears, but not in tune to escape the notice of the other two.
Xue Pan himself was fairly unconcerned.
Jin-gui was the only person he feared, and as Jin-gui had given her consent, he cared nothing about what anyone else might think.
He had not even bothered to shut the door.
But Moonbeam minded very much.
Being by nature a disputatious, somewhat self-righteous young woman, she found it peculiarly galling that Caltrop of all people should have seen her at such a moment.
Pushing Xue Pan away from her, she ran out of the room, protesting, with cries of angry complaint, that he had been attempting to rape her.
The effect of this upon Xue Pan was that all the excitement generated by his tussling with Moonbeam was transformed into animosity against Caltrop.
He rushed outside and spat at her.
Little harlot!
What do you man by it, wandering around the place like a damned disembodied ghost?
He might have done her an injury, but Caltrop, sensing that she was in mortal danger, ran as fast as her legs would carry her and managed to get away.
Abandoning the chase, he went back to look for Moonbeam but could find no trace of her.
This increased his anger against Caltrop, whom he cursed once more in her absence.
After dinner that evening, when he had once again drunk himself merry, he decided to take a bath.
On testing the water with his foot and finding it to be too hot, he insisted that Caltrop had done it deliberately, intending to harm him, ran after her, stark naked as he was, and gave her a couple of kicks.
Caltrop had long grown unused to such savage treatment but things had now reached such a pass that she dared not complain and ran off to weep alone and nurse her injuries in silence.
Meanwhile Jin-gui had secretly instructed Moonbeam to place herself at Xue Pans disposal that very night in Caltrops bedroom.
She ordered Caltrop to move in with her , and when she refused, said she supposed that it was because she found 600 -1307 her room dirty or was too lazy to wait on her at night.
She pretended to think that it was Xue Pan who had inspired her refusal.
'That master of yours is such a barbarian,' she said.
'He has only to look at a girl to want her for himself.
Now he's taken my maid away, yet he won't let me have you in her place.
What's his idea, I wonder?
Does he want to drive me to my death?'
Xue Pan, for whose ears this was, of course, intended, became apprehensive that the difficulties Caltrop was making might once more prevent him from enjoying Moonbeam, and he came rushing into Caltrop's room to rebuke her.
'Don't you realize, this is an honour your mistress is doing you?
You do as you're told and sleep with her, or I'll give you a beating!'
Caltrop had now no choice but to roll up her bedding and carry it into Jin-gui's room.
Jin-gui told her to make her bed up on the floor.
This order too she had to obey.
As soon as she had settled down for the night, Jin-gui called to her for some tea.
Caltrop brought her the tea and lay down again.
A little after that Jin-gui called to her to come and massage her legs.
And so it went on, seven or eight times in the course of the night, so that it was impossible for Caltrop to get right off to sleep or even to rest properly.
Now that Xue Pan had got Moonbeam, he was like a man who has come into possession of a priceless jewel.
He forsook all other interests for her.
This secretly enraged Jin-gui, who could not forbear some jealous mutterings when she was on her own.
'Enjoy yourself while you can, my friend,' she would say.
'I shall get round to you in the end.
And when I do, you had better not complain!'
For the time being, however, she refrained from outbursts and set about laying a trap for Caltrop.
About a fortnight after Caltrop moved into her room she suddenly pretended to be ill. She complained of agonizing pains in the heart and appeared unable to move her limbs.
Nothing they did for her seemed to bring relief.
The servants said it must have been brought on by something Caltrop had done to upset her.
601 A couple of days later, as one of the maids was shaking out Jin-gui's pillow, a cut-out paper mannikin fell out of it.
It had the eight symbols of her nativity written on it and five needles sticking into it, one in the heart and one in each of the limbs.
This item of news was thought sufficiently interesting to be reported to Aunt Xue, instantly throwing that poor lady into a highly inflammable state of nervous commotion.
The effect the news had upon Xue Pan was even more violent.
He was for having all the servants flogged immediately until one of them confessed to having planted the paper figure but Jin-gui prevented him.
'Why make the innocent suffer?'
she said.
'I expect it's Moonbeam who did it, to get me out of the way.'
'That's most unfair,' said Xue Pan.
'When, during this past week or two, has Moonbeam had the time to go inside your room?'
'Who else could it have been then?'
said Jin-gui.
'I suppose you don't think I'd do it to myself?
Moonbeam is the only one who'd dare go in my room.'
'But Lily's been in here with you all the time,' said Xue Pan.
'She must know, if anyone does.
She's the one to flog if we want to find out.'
'What's the good of flogging anyone?'
said Jin-gui.
'They'll never confess anything.
If you ask me, you'd much better pretend you haven't heard about it and let the matter drop.
When all's said and done, it doesn't much matter if I die.
You can always find yourself a better wife when you feel like it.
If we're going to be honest, the fact of the matter is, you all three hate me, don't you ?'
She began crying bitterly.
Xue Pan was so enraged that he snatched up a door-bar and rushed off in search of Caltrop straight away.
He began hitting her with it as soon as he found her, on the head, on the face, on the body, shouting accusations at her but giving her no chance to deny them.
Aunt Xue came running out in answer to Caltrop's anguished cries and shouted to him to stop.
'How can you beat the girl like that without first making an attempt to find out what has happened?
She's given us years of faithful service it's unthinkable that she'd do a 602 -1307 thing like that.
Time enough to start laying about you after you've made a serious attempt to get to the bottom of it.'
When Jin-gui heard her mother-in4aw saying this, she was afraid that Xue Pan might weaken.
Her crying rose in pitch into a sort of plaintive yell.
'You have monopolized Moonbeam now for over a fortnight and refused to let anyone but Lily sleep with me.
You rush to Moonbeam's defence when I say you ought to flog her, and now you get in a temper and start beating Lily.
I don't know why you don't stop all this play-acting and get rid of me then you will be free to pick a really rich, good-looking girl to marry.'
Her words had the intended effect of further inflaming Xue Pan.
Aunt Xue could see that her son was being manipulated and was thoroughly disgusted by the unscrupulous way in which Jin-gui maintained her hold on him.
But what could she do?
She knew the weakness of her son's character and realized that his subservience to Jin-gui had already become a habit.
Evidently he had seduced Jin-gui's maid, that much was dear yet Jin-gui was one moment accusing him of forcibly 'monopolizing' the girl, while the next moment she seemed to claim credit for deferring like a good wife to his wishes.
And who could be responsible for the black magic?
The proverb says that even the wisest judge will hesitate to pronounce on household matters.
Adapting it to the present circumstances, it might be said that even a parent finds it difficult to pronounce on the marital problems of his offspring.
Aunt Xue, certainly, felt quite helpless when confronted with those of her son.
She could only shout at him in exasperation.
'Worthless creature Even a dog would behave in a more seemly manner than you do!
Now, it seems, you have got your muddy paws onto your wife's own maid that she brought with her from her home.
You've heard her yourself accusing you of taking the girl away from her.
How are you going to show your face anywhere when other people get to hear about it?
And this other business Heaven only knows who is responsible yet here you go, lashing out at this poor child here before making the slightest effort to find out what really 603 -1307 happened.
We all know what a fickle creature you are, but really!
What a return for the years of loyal service she has given you!
I don't care how dissatisfied you are with her, you ought not to beat her.
I'll get a dealer here right away and have her sold that's the only way to settle this.
Then you won't be troubled by her any more.
Come, girl!'
she said to caltrop, 'get your things together and come with me.'
She turned to the other servants.
'Quickly now, go and get the dealer!
It doesn't matter what we sell her for just let's get rid of this - this thorn in the flesh, and perhaps we shall have a bit of peace again in this household!'
Xue Pan, seeing that his mother was really angry, stood with bowed head throughout this tirade and made no attempt to reply.
It was Jin-gui's strident wail from inside the window that answered her.
'Whether you want to sell the girl or not, Mrs Xue, I think you might leave me out of it.
Are you implying that I'm such a vinegar-wife that I can't tolerate an inferior?
And what do you mean, "thorn in the flesh"?
Thorn in whose flesh?
Even if I did hate her so much, I wouldn't let him have my own maid to replace her with.'
'What sort of manners are these?'
Aunt Xue was trembling all over and her voice was choking.
'Since when did it become acceptable for a young woman to shout at her mother-in-law through the window?
I was under the impression that you had been brought up in an educated household.
All this shouting and screaming - I can't make out what you are trying to say.'
Xue Pan stamped his foot and shouted at Jin-gui despairingly.
'Oh stop, stop!
You'll have everyone laughing at us.'
Jin-gui, thinking, no doubt, that having gone so far she might as well go all the way, only shouted the louder.
'Why should I care if people laugh at us?
Your darling chamber-wife has been trying to do me in.
Is this a time to start worrying about whether people are laughing at us or not?
Why don't you keep her and sell me instead?
Everyone knows how rich the Xues are and how they make use of their money in order to trample on other people.
And every- 604 one knows about their fine relations who will always step in and slap anyone down for them who is giving them trouble.
what are you waiting for?
I dont know why you married me in the first place if you find me so unsatisfactory.
Im sure I didnt ask you to come running round to our house, begging and entreating my mother to let you have me as your wife.
She rolled about on the bed, weeping and screaming and beating her bosom.
Xue Pan was beside himself.
Whether he rebuked her, reasoned with her, beat her, or begged her to be silent, it seemed unlikely that anything he did would have much effect.
He could only stump in and out of the room, sighing and groaning inarticulately, and concluded by exclaiming, with great bitterness, that he was a very unlucky man.
Meanwhile Bao-chai had persuaded her mother to come indoors.
Aunt Xue continued to insist that Caltrop must be sold.
Bao-chai smilingly expostulated.
People like us dont sell servants, Mamma, we only buy them.
I think anger is interfering with your judgement.
What would people think if they heard that we were planning to sell a servant?
They would laugh us to scorn.
If Pan and his wife are dissatisfied with Caltrop, let her stay here and work for me.
I could do with another maid.
If we keep her, it will seem to them like a provocation, said Aunt Xue.
Much better send her away and be done with it.
I cant see that it makes any difference, said Bao-chai.
Provided she never goes into the front part of the house, then as far as they are concerned, it will be just as if she had been sold.
Caltrop was already at Aunt Xues feet begging to be allowed to stay and protesting her willingness to serve Bao-chai as a maid.
Aunt Xue was obliged to relent.
From now on Caltrop spent all her time with Bao-chai and stopped going into the front part of the house altogether.
She had at least security now but for all that she was not entirely happy.
Sometimes on fine, clear nights she would gaze wet-checked at the moon at other times she might be heard unaccountably sighing to herself while she trimmed a lamp.
605 The fact was that although she had lived with Xue Pan for several years, she had never borne him a child.
Some defect in the blood had made her unable to conceive.
And now she was ill too.
The effect of all the emotional and physical outrage to which she had recently been subjected was that a flood of fiery humour was released into her liver, leading eventually to a drying up of the menstrual fluid.
She became very thin, yet had lost all interest in food.
The doctor was called in and medicines were prescribed, but they seemed to do her no good.
Meanwhile Jin-gui had had several more scenes with her husband.
Sometimes, when drink had made him bold, Xue Pan would try to assert himself.
Once or twice he went for her with a cudgel or a knife but Jin-gui only offered him her body to belabour, or stretched her neck out and defied him to do his worst and of course he could not he could only bluster.
This soon became the established pattern of their quarrels.
The only result of it was that Jin-guis power over her husband grew all the stronger.
At this point Jin-gui began directing her attention on Moonbeam, picking on her and finding fault with her.
But Moonbeam was made of more inflammable stuff than Caltrop.
Up to now she and Xue Pan had got on together so swimmingly that she had all but dismissed Jin-gui from her mind.
Finding herself now under attack from that quarter, she was unwilling to yield an inch and gave back as good as she got.
When, after a few slanging-matches, Jin-gui grew really angry and began not only to curse her but to lay hands on her as well, she did not quite dare to return blow for blow, but she put on a fine display of hysteria, shrieking, rolling about on the floor and threshing about with her limbs.
Thereafter she was constantly threatening suicide, and at any hour of the day or night they might have to snatch knives or scissors from her grasp or take down the noose which she had fastened for herself over a beam.
Between the two of them Xue Pan was driven half distracted.
He could only look on helplessly while they quarrelled, until finally the rumpus got too much for him and he would slip out of the house and take refuge elsewhere.
606 Sometimes in the intervals between quarrelling, if she was feeling cheerful, Jin-gui would gather a few people together to play at dice or cards.
She was inordinately fond of gnawing bones, especially the bones of fowls.
To satisfy this craving she had ducks and chickens killed every day.
The meat she gave to other people it was only the bones, crisp-fried in boiling fat, that she kept for herself, to nibble with her wine.
Sometimes, if the bone she was gnawing was giving her trouble and she grew impatient, she would swear like a trooper.
That ponce and his poxy strumpet seem to enjoy themselves, she would say self-pityingly.
Why cant I get any enjoyment?
Aunt Xue and Bao-chai no longer attempted to intervene.
Now they could only sit in their own room and weep in silence while they listened to the profanities next door.
Xue Pan was helpless.
He bitterly regretted the brief madness which had led him to chain himself to this demon wife.
Soon everyone in the two mansions, both masters and servants, had heard about the Xues predicament and all felt sorry for them.
-1094 By this time Bao-yus hundred days of convalescence had ended and he was allowed to go out.
One of the first things he did was to call on Jin-gui.
There was nothing exceptionable in her behaviour or appearance on the occasion when he saw her she seemed to be just the same sort of delicate, flowerlike creature as all the other girls.
How did so beautiful a person come to have so appalling a character?
It was a mystery which continued to occupy him for some time after the visit.
When, a few days later, he called in to wish his mother good morning, his visit happened to coincide with that of Ying-chuns nurse.
She brought distressing news about Sun Shao-zus behaviour.
Whenever she is on her own, the young mistress does nothing but cry, said the woman.
Shes longing for you to send for her so that she can enjoy a day or two of freedom.
Ive been meaning for some days to send for her, said 607 Lady Wang, but so many disagreeable things have been happening lately that I keep forgetting.
Bao-yu spoke to me about this when he got back from his visit the other day.
Tomorrow is a good day, according to the calendar.
We will send for her tomorrow.
Just then a servant arrived from Grandmother Jias with a message for Bao-yu.
He was to go first thing next morning to the Tian Qi Temple to burn incense in payment of a vow she had made for his recovery.
Eager for outings after his long confinement, he was hardly able to sleep that night for excitement.
Next day he rose at dawn, and as soon as he had washed and dressed, set off by carriage, accompanied by two or three old nannies, and drove through the West Gate of the city to the Tian Qi Temple outside the walls.
The Taoists of the temple had spent the previous day preparing the place for his arrival.
Because of his nervous disposition he did not care to get too close to the hideous guardian deities and other horror-inspiring images for which this temple was famous.
As soon as he had presented the paper figures, spirit money, food and so forth which constituted the offering, he withdrew to the residential part of the temple and, alter taking lunch there, set off on a sight-seeing tour of the temple and its precincts, accompanied by the old nannies and by Li Gui and the other grooms.
But the sight-seeing soon fatigued him and he withdrew to the monks quarters again for a rest.
The old nannies considered that it would be bad for him to sleep so soon after eating and called in the Taoist priest-in-charge, Father Wang, to sit and talk with him.
This Father Wang had knocked about the world in his rime as an itinerant vendor of panaceas and even now had his name-plate hung up outside the temple with an impressive list of the pills, powders, plasters and potions that he was prepared, for a consideration, to dispense.
He was a frequent visitor at the Ning and Rong mansions and was known to everyone there - as to everyone else outside - as One Plaster Wang from his habit of always concluding the patter with which he recommended his medicaments with the same 608 formula One plaster will suffice, ladies and gentlemen one single plaster will suffice.
When One Plaster Wang arrived, Bao-yu was reclining on the kang looking half-asleep and Li Gui and the others were doing their best to keep him awake.
An, Father Wang!
they said as he entered.
Youve come just in time.
Everyones always saying how good you are at telling funny stories.
Wont you tell one now for our young master?
I think I had better, said One Plaster Wang, smiling.
We dont want him sleeping after his lunch.
The batter hes lust eaten might start battering his insides.
This was not a bad beginning.
At least it made them all laugh.
Bao-yu, laughing with the others, got up and straightened out his clothes.
One Plaster Wang ordered one of his acolytes to make some good, strong tea.
Master Bao doesnt want any of your tea, said Tealeaf.
Your room stinks of medicine.
O fie!
said One Plaster Wang in comic outrage.
O monstrous imputation!
Never has medicine of any kind found its way into this room.
Moreover, for the past three or four days, ever since I heard your master was coming here, I have been burning incense to sweeten it.
Im always hearing about your plasters, said Bao-yu.
Tell me, what sort of things are they good for?
My plasters?
said the old Taoist.
Ah, now youve started something!
Its impossible to do them justice in a few words.
To begin with, there are one hundred and twenty different ingredients in the ointment I use on them.
Some of them dominate over the others like a prince over his subjects, some of them combine with each other in equal strength some generate heat, some coolness some of them are cheap and some expensive.
Internally they stabilize and fortify the humours, enrich the blood, stimulate the appetite, tranquillize the spirits, banish excessive heat and cold, aid digestion and loosen phlegm externally they regularize the pulses, relax the muscles, draw out the old, corrupt flesh, promote new growth, expel rheums and neutralize poisons.
Their efficacy is miraculous, as you yourself may see if you ever have occasion to use one.
609 I can hardly believe that a single plaster can do so many things, said Bao-yu.
I wonder if the trouble I am thinking of could be cured by one.
My plasters will cure any illness you like to mention, said the old Taoist.
If they dont give you instant relief, you are at liberty to pluck me by the beard, slap my old face, and pull my temple down!
What is the illness you have in mind?
Try and guess, said Bao-yu.
If you can guess right, I shall believe in the efficacy of your plasters.
One Plaster Wang thought for a bit.
Hmn, difficult.
He smiled slily.
Of course, there are some things that its not very c onvenient to use plasters for.
Bao-yu told all the servants but Tealeaf to go out of the room.
This room is too small for so many people, he said.
The air in it is becoming foul.
Tealeaf lit a stick of Sweet Dreams incense and Bao-yu made him sit close to him, with the lighted incense in his hand, so that he could lean on him for support.
Watching this little pantomime, the cunning old Taoist had a sudden inspiration.
His face broke into a broad grin.
Coming up closer to Bao-yu, he bent down and spoke softly into his ear.
I think Ive guessed.
Could it be that you have started bedchamber exercises already and are looking for a little something to help things along?
Almost before he had finished, Tealeaf was shouting at him indignantly.
Get away with you!
Dirty old man!
Bao-yu had not understood.
Whats that?
he asked Tealeaf, puzzled.
What did he say?
Never mind what he said, said Tealeaf.
Silly rubbish!
Youd better tell me yourself what it is, Master Bao, said One Plaster Wang, unwilling to risk another guess.
The thing I want to know about is jealousy, said Bao-yu.
Could one of your plasters cure a woman of being jealous?
One Plaster Wang clapped his hands and laughed.
Now there you have me!
Neither my plasters nor anyone elses could do that!
610 They are not such great shakes after all then, said Bao-yu, smiling.
I said plasters couldnt, said One Plaster Wang.
I know of an infusion that might.
The only thing is, it would take rather a long time.
Theres no lightning cure for jealousy.
What is this infusion called?
said Bao-yu.
How do you make it?
Its called Pirum saccharinum, said One Plaster Wang.
You take one very good autumn pear, two drams of crystal sugar, one dram of bitter-peel and three cups of water and simmer them all together until the pear is soft.
If the sufferer can be made to eat one such pear, together with its juices, first thing every morning, she will, eventually, be cured.
I dont think much of that, said Bao-yu.
I cant see that working.
If it doesnt work the first time, perhaps it will by the tenth, said the old Taoist.
If one years treatment is insufficient, she must persevere for a second.
And so on.
At all events, these are wholesome ingredients.
A pear prepared in this way is soothing to the lungs and stomach, innocuous to the health, sweet to the palate, lenitive for a cough and in every way agreeable.
Sooner or later the woman will die and as there is no jealousy that I know of after death, it could be said that by that time she had been cured.
This set Bao-yu and Tealeaf off into fits of laughter.
Oily-tongued old ox they called him.
Well, whats the harm?
said One Plaster Wang.
Its only a bit of nonsense to stop you sleeping in the middle of the day.
Making you laugh is worth much more than any medicine.
Even my plasters are only tomfoolery.
Do you think if I really had a magic formula Id be sitting here talking to you now?
Id have taken it myself long ago and gone off to join the immortals.
The hour of sacrifice had now arrived and Bao-yu was invited to offer his libation and set fire to his paper hecatomb.
What remained of the more substantial part of the offering -the foodstuffs and the wine - was shared out among the Taoists and the others present.
Having completed what he came out for, he drove back into the city.
611 By the time he got home Ying-chun had already been back an hour or more.
The servants who brought her were being entertained to dinner before returning to the Sun household.
Ying-chun meanwhile was in Lady Wangs room giving her and the cousins a tearful account of her matrimonial troubles.
Sun Shao-zu is an out-and-out libertine.
Gambling, drinking and chasing after women are the only things he cares about.
He has corrupted practically every maid and young woman in the house.
I have protested to him about it more than once, but he only swears at me.
He calls me a jealous little bitch.
He says that Father borrowed five thousand taels from him and spent it all, and that though he has been round time and again to ask for it, Father refuses to pay it back.
Then he points his finger at me and shouts Dont put on the lady wife act with me, my girl!
Youre no better than a bought slave - payment in kind for the five thousand taels your old man owes me - and if youre not very careful I shall give you a good beating and send you to sleep with the maids.
He says it was Great-grandfather who took the Initiative in making the alliance between our families because theirs was so rich and influential, so that by rights he ought to be Fathers equal.
He says he was a fool to marry me, because that makes Father his senior and besides, he says, it has given people the impression that he needed our help, whereas in fact quite the reverse is true.
Ying-chun sobbed bittely while she told them this and the others wept as they listened.
Lady Wang did her best to comfort her.
Hes obviously an unreasonable man, she said but now that youre married to him, theres really nothing to be done.
I remember your Uncle Zheng speaking very strongly against the marriage to your father, but your father was so set on it, he wouldnt listen.
Its a bad business.
My poor child!
Im afraid it must be your fate.
Ying-chun wept.
I cant believe that it was my fate to be so unhappy.
After losing my mother as a tiny child, it seemed such bliss when you brought me here to live with Cousin Wan and 612 the girls.
And now, after just a few years of blessedness, I am to end like this!
Lady Wang tried once more to comfort her.
She suggested that Ying-chun herself should decide where she wished to sleep.
Since the very first moment I left I have been longing every minute of the day and night to be back here with the girls, said Ying-chun.
And next to them I have missed my beloved Amaryllis Eyot.
If only I might spend another four or five days in the Garden, I think I could die content.
Who knows if I shall ever be allowed to come and stay here again?
Now, now, thats a foolish way to talk!
said Lady Wang.
A little jangling between newly married couples is the commonest thing in the world.
There is no cause at all to be so tragic about it.
She gave orders for the rooms on Amaryllis Eyot to be made ready as quickly as possible, and told the cousins to keep Ying-chun company and do their best to distract her from her troubles.
She particularly impressed upon Bao-yu that no word of this was to reach the ears of Grandmother Jia.
If I find that Grandmother has got to hear of this, she warned him, I shall hold you alone responsible.
Bao-yu had to promise that he would say nothing.
That evening saw Ying-chun installed once more in her old apartment, with everyone round her, cousins and servants alike, doing their utmost to make her feel cherished.
Three days she spent in her old apartment in the Garden after that she had to go and stay with Lady Xing.
Before doing so she called on Grandmother Jia and Lady Wang to say good-bye.
Her leave-taking with the cousins which followed was extremely painful.
It was all that Aunt Xue and Lady Wang could do to calm the young people in their grief.
Ying-chun stayed two days with Lady Xing and it was to Lady Xings place that the Sun family servants came to collect her.
Needless to say, she felt little inclined to go with them but fear of her husbands evil temper made her conceal her reluctance and hurry over her leave-taking.
Lady Xing had 613 never been much interested in her daughters welfare -during the two days that Ying-chun was with her she never once inquired whether her relations with her husband were harmonious and the duties required of her in her new household not too onerous - and such expressions of maternal sentiment as she may have indulged in at her departure were of only the most perfunctory and superficial kind.
As to what followed her departure to know that, dear reader, you will have to look into another volume.
EXPLICIT TERTIA PARS LAPIDIS HISTORIAE
CHAPTER 81 -1922 Four young ladies go fishing and divine the future Bao-yu receives a homily and is re-enrolled in the Family School -347 TO CONTINUE OUR STORY -1307 After Ying-chuns departure, Lady Xing continued as though nothing had happened.
It was Lady Wang who had gone out of her way to be kind, and her sympathy was genuine and deeply felt.
In the morning, when Baoyu came to her apartment to pay his respects, he found her a!one, sighing pensively to herself.
He thought he could see traces of tears on her cheeks, and not wanting to intrude, stood to one side.
When she told him to sit down, he sidled up onto the kang and settled down next to her.
He lapsed at once into a silent stare, and she could tell that he had something on his mind.
Well, and what are you looking so glum for?
Nothing really...
I just cant stop thinking about Cousin Ying.
Its so awful.
I havent mentioned it to Grannie, hut I havent been able to sleep properly for two nights now.
How helpless and defenceless she must feel, especially after growing up in a family like ours!
Shes so weak too, and never could stand up for herself properly.
Why should she of all people have to fall into the hands of such a bully, someone wholl never be able to give her the sort of tenderness and understanding she needs?
He was on the verge of tears.
It is hard, I know, said Lady Wang.
But as they say, marry a daughter, throw out the water".
At this stage, what is there I could possibly do?
-576 Ive thought of something, replied Bao-yu somewhat unexpectedly.
It came to me last night.
If we report the whole thing to Grannie, we can get her permission to fetch Ying and move her back to Amaryllis Eyot.
Why not?
Shell be able to lead her old carefree life, well all be together again, and that Mr Sun can go to hell and take his temper with him!
If he dares to try and ask for her back, well simply refuse to let her go.
He can come a hundred times, well never give in.
Well just say that its Grannies orders, and he wont be able to do a thing.
Dont you think its a brilliant plan?
My dear child!
exclaimed Lady Wang, her voice registering both amusement and motherly vexation at this effusion.
There you go again carried away by yet another of your silly ideas!
How can you be so hopelessly naive?
Cant you see that sooner or later every girl has to leave home, and that once shes married her own family has no business to interfere?
She must look to her own future.
If fate has been kind to her, well and good.
If not, she must learn to live with it all the same.
You must know the old rhyme When rooster crows at break of day, All his hen-folk must obey.
No choice for a dogs wife But to make the best of a dogs life.
-587 Not all the girls can be called to court like your elder sister, you know.
Besides, Ying is still an inexperienced wife, and her husband a young man.
Their temperaments differ, and if at this early stage they dont get on very well together, thats only to be expected.
Given time, when theyve both learned to understand one another better and have a family of their own, things will sort themselves out, Im sure they will.
Youre certainly not to breathe a word of this to your grandmother!
If I discover that you have, I shall be extremely cross.
Now, off you go, Ive heard quite enough of your nonsense.
Realizing that his mother was adamant, Bao-yu sat there a while longer in silence, then walked listlessly out of the room.
Choking with frustration, he made his way back to the Garden and straight to the Naiads House.
The instant he entered the door, he let out a great wail and burst into tears.
Dai-yu, who had only just that minute finished washing and putting up her hair, was shocked to see the state he was in and asked in some alarm Whatevers the matter?
Whos upset you?
Bao-yu, however, was already slumped over the table, sobbing his heart out and far too distraught to reply to her questions.
From her chair Dai-yu studied him anxiously for a while, before asking again Well, at least let me know if Im the culprit or not... Thats not it!
Its nothing like that!
he replied at last, with a despairing motion of his hand.
Then why the tears and everything?
I just think the sooner we all die the better!
Theres no joy left in life!
What do you mean?
Have you gone quite mad?
Im not in the slightest mad.
Let me explain and Im sure youll feel as I do.
When Ying was here, you saw how she looked, you heard everything she said, didnt you?
Why is it that the minute theyre grown up, girls are married off and have to suffer so?
When I think of the happy times we all had together when we first started the Crab-flower Club, always inviting each other round for parties and holding poetry contests - there seemed no end of wonderful things to do.
And now?
Bao-chai has already moved out, which means Caltrop cant come over either, and with Ying gone as well, our band of kindred spirits is being broken up, everything is being spoiled!
I had thought of a plan, to get Grannie on our side and rescue Ying.
But when I told Mother, she just called me naive and silly and wouldnt take me seriously.
So I had to give up the idea.
You only have to look around you!
Our Gardens altered so much in such a short time.
What could become of it in the next few years just doesnt bear thinking about.
Now do you see what I mean, and why I cant help despairing?
As she listened to all that he was saying, Dai-yu very slowly bowed her head and moved back almost imperceptibly onto the kang.
She did not say a word, but only sighed and curled up facing the wall.
This was how Nightingale found them when she came in to serve tea.
Her attempts to puzzle out what could have happened were cut short by the arrival of Aroma.
So this is where you are!
she said as she came into the room.
Youre wanted at Her Old Ladyships, Master Bao.
I thought Id find you here... Recognizing Aromas voice, Dai-yu sat up a little and nodded to her to sit down.
Bao-yu noticed that her eyes were red from crying.
I got a bit carried away, coz, he said.
Please dont take it to heart so.
What you must do is look after yourself properly and get fit and well.
And when I say that, I mean it.
So have a rest now.
Im wanted at Grannies.
Ill be back.
With these words he set off.
Whats up with you two then?
whispered Aroma.
Oh, hes upset about Miss Ying, Dai-yu replied.
Im all right.
My eyes have been itching and Ive been rubbing them, thats all.
Aroma said nothing and hurried out after Bao-yu.
He reached Grandmother Jias only to find that she had already retired for her midday nap, and was obliged to go back to Green Delights.
In the afternoon he woke from his sleep feeling very bored, and picked up a book to read.
Aroma hurried off to make tea, eager to sustain him in his studies.
He had chanced upon an anthology of early verse, and as he turned its pages found himself reading a stanza by Cao -1307 Cao Come drink with me and sing, For lifes a fleeting thing.
Full many a day has fled Like the morning dew... -1307 Far from distracting him, this only served to increase his ennui, and he put the book down and picked up another.
This time it was The Gathering at Orchid Pavilion and other Prose Selections from the Jin Dynasty.
After a page or two he suddenly closed it, and when Aroma returned with his tea, she found him sitting there, head propped on hand, looking his most dazed and distant.
Why have you given up so soon?
she asked.
Bao-yu took his tea without a word of reply, drank a sip, then mechanically replaced the cup.
Aroma was out of her depth and could do nothing but stand there dumbly looking on.
Suddenly he stood up, and muttered sarcastically -2240 Oh gemlike ecstasy... -1307 Aroma half-wanted to laugh, but on reflection thought it safer not to probe too far.
If you dont feel like reading, she suggested tactfully, why not go for a walk in the Garden?
Theres no sense in sitting here and working yourself up into one of your states again.
Bao-yu mumbled something in reply and walked abstractedly out of the room.
He soon came to Drenched Blossoms Pavilion, and gazed out over the lake.
All around him he saw nothing but dereliction and decay.
Walking on, he reached All Spice Court, which was locked and shuttered.
Only its rockery was still tenanted by the familiar herbs and creepers.
He was just turning to go on past the Lotus Pavilion, when something caught his eye.
Looking across the water, he could just distinguish a small group of people leaning over the stone balustrade on Smartweed Bank, and some maids down below, squatting on their heels and apparently searching for something.
He darted behind a large rock and crept up on them, listening all the while.
Will it come up?
Will it...
He thought he recognized the voice of Li Wans cousin, Li Wen.
Then came a laugh There!
Its gone!
You see, I told you it wouldnt bite!
There was no mistaking Tan-chuns voice.
Of course it wont if you keep moving about like that, Wen!
Look!
Its going to!
The last two voices were those of Li Wens younger sister Qi, and Lady Xings niece Xiu-yan.
Such an opportunity was altogether too tempting.
Picking a brickbat from the ground, Bao-yu lobbed it into the water right in front of the four girls.
There was a resounding splash and they jumped for their lives, with cries of What the.
.. Whos that trying to give us a scare?
Of all the mean.
A beaming Bao-yu sprang from his hiding-place.
Having a lovely time, are you?
And why wasnt I invited, pray?
It was Tan-chun who replied Typical!
I knew it!
That had "Bao-yu" written all over it!
Well Im not going to waste my breath scolding you, just hurry up and catch us another fish to make up for that one.
It was practically on the hook when you had to come along and scare it away.
Not likely!
said Bao-yu with a grin.
Here you are on a fishing excursion and leaving me out - its you who owe me a penalty!
Everyone laughed.
I know, he went on.
As were all fishing today, why dont we try a round of "Fateful Fish"?
Its very simple.If you catch a fish it means a year of good luck, and if you dont a year of bad luck.
Come on, whos going to have first go?
Tan-chun offered the rod to Li Wen, but she declined.
Oh well, said Tan-chun, it looks as if Ill have to start.
She turned to Bao-yu.
If you scare mine away again, brother, youll be for it.
I only wanted to make you all jump.
Youll be perfectly safe this time, I promise.
Tan-chun cast her line, and in just a few seconds a little leaf-wriggler swallowed the hook and down went the float.
She pulled in and landed her catch, alive and jumping.
Scribe, after a lot of scrambling about, managed to get a grip on the thing, and carrying it over in both hands, placed it carefully in a little earthenware jar of fresh water.
Tan-chun passed the rod on to Wen.
She too felt a tug on the line almost immediately, and pulled in excitedly, only to find nothing on the hook.
She cast out again, and this time stood there angling for ages.
At last the line tautened and she pulled in again.
Another false alarm.
She picked up the hook to examine it, and discovered that it was buckled.
No wonder I couldnt catch anything!
She laughed and without more ado told Candida to straighten it out for her, put on some fresh bait and fasten on the reed-float securely.
This time after only a few minutes, down went the float, in she pulled with great determination, and there it was - a little two-inch silver carp.
Delighted, she turned to Bao-yu.
You next.
Qi and Xiu-yan must go first, replied Bao-yu.
I insist.
Xiu-yan was silent.
You go first, Cousin Bao, protested Qi.
As she spoke a big bubble popped on the water.
Come On!
cried Tan-chun.
Theres no need to overdo it.
Look, the fish are all over there by you, Qi.
You have a go quickly!
-384 Qi took the rod with a giggle of embarrassment.
Sure enough, down went her float and she had a catch first time.
Xiu-yan was the last of the girls to have her turn.
She caught one and passed the rod back to Tan-chun, who handed it on to Bao-yu.
I shall follow in the footsteps of old Sire Jiang, he declared.
Straight was his hook, His bait a single grain Yet of their own accord The fish unto him came... -384 Walking solemnly down the jetty, he sat at the waters edge in the pose of the Fisherman Sage.
Unfortunately, at the approach of this human shadow, the fish took refuge in the far end of the pond, and for all his exertions in the higher art of angling, a long time seemed to pass without the slightest sign of a bite.
When once a fish did venture near and deigned to blow a few bubbles near the bank, he jerked the rod and scared it away.
Oh dear!
he sighed.
Its no good.
The trouble is that Im so confoundedly impatient, and the fish are so slow on the uptake.
We must be incompatible.
I shall never catch anything at this rate.
Come on now, help me!
Feel yourself being drawn, theres my brave little fish!
There was a peal of laughter from the girls.
Then, before anyone could say a word, the line was seen to move a fraction.
A bite at last!
The sage yanked in for all he was worth.
The rod crashed into a protruding rock and broke clean in two.
The line snapped, and the hook with whatever it may or may not have secured sank without trace.
This final stroke of virtuosity had his audience in stitches.
Tan-chun called out Ive never seen such a clumsy fool!
As she was speaking, who should come rushing up but Musk, in a state of great excitement.
Master Bao, Her Old Ladyship has woken up and wants to see you at once!
The five of them exchanged startled glances.
But what about?
asked Tan-chun.
I dont know, replied Musk.
All I heard was something about a "scandalous revelation" they want to question Master Bao about.
Theyve asked Mrs Lian to come and answer questions as well.
Bao-yu stood for a moment in stunned silence.
Eventually he said I wonder which poor maid is in for the high jump this time?
Weve no idea what its about, said Tan-chun, so Bao, youd better go straight away and as soon as youve any news, send Musk over to let us know.
The four girls went their way, and Bao-yu set off for Grandmother Jias apartment.
He arrived to find her in the middle of a game of cards with Lady Wang, and realized to his relief that it could be nothing as serious as he had feared.
Grandmother Jia saw him come in and asked him Bao darling, do you remember last year, when you were so seriously ill , and those two holy men - that mad-looking monk and that lame Taoist - came and cured you, in the nick of time - what did the illness feel like?
Bao-yu reflected for a moment.
I can remember how it started.
I was standing in my room when suddenly someone seemed to come from behind and ram something hard, like a wooden bar, up against the back of my head.
It hurt like anything, my eyes started throbbing and everything went pitch-black.
All I could see in the room was a mob of green -faced devils with huge fangs, carrying swords and cudgels.
I went to lie down on the kang, but then it felt as if I had tight bands round my head and the pain became so excruciating that I no longer knew what was happening.
I remember how I got better.
There was a ray of golden light from the hall outside my room, that shone right onto my bed.
The devils just took to their heels and vanished.
They seemed scared of the light.
My headache went away and I felt quite myself again.
You see!
exclaimed Grandmother Jia, turning to Lady Wang.
It ties in perfectly.
As she was speaking, Xi-feng entered the room and greeted first Grandmother Jia, then Lady Wang.
What did you want to ask me about, Grannie?
she asked.
Tell me, replied Grandmother Jia, can you recall that nasty attack you had last year?
Xi-feng laughed.
Not very clearly.
The main thing I remember about it is that I was possessed.
There was someone manipulating me, filling my head with the most bloodthirsty intentions.
I had a terrible urge to grab hold of everything in sight and kill it.
I was exhausted, but I couldnt stop.
And then?
asked Grandmother Jia.
When you were cured?
There was a voice, replied Xi-feng, that seemed to speak to me from nowhere.
But what it said I honestly cant remember.
That settles it!
exclaimed the old lady.
Thats exactly the sort of thing she got up to!
So it was her doing, it must have been!
Oh!
How could the old woman sink so low - and Bao-yus own godmother too!
Gracious Lord, to think that if those two holy men had not arrived in time, he might easily have died!
And we still have not repaid them...
But Grannie, asked Xi-feng, what made you think of all this in the first place?
Ask your aunt, replied Grandmother Jia.
Ive done enough of the talking.
Lady Wang took over the story.
Sir Zheng told us when he was here this morning.
Apparently Bao-yus godmother, Mother Ma, is an evil old woman and a practising witch.
As the result of certain scandalous revelations, shes been arrested by the secret police and sent to the Central Jail.
I should imagine shes been sentenced to death by now.
The whole thing started the other day, when a Mr Pan San-bao informed against her.
He had been trying to sell a property to a pawnbroker across the street.
His price had already risen by several hundred per cent, and when he asked for more the pawnbroker backed out.
So in an attempt to salvage his sale, Mr Pan hired the services of our Mother Ma, whom he knew to be a regular visitor at the pawnshop and intimate with all the womenfolk there.
She duly succeeded, by s6me evil means, in throwing the pawnbrokers wife into a convulsion, Then, waiting until the attack reached alarming proportions, she had the effrontery to arrive in person, claiming to possess a patent cure for the affliction.
And sure enough, after a few burnt offerings of her paper charms, paper money and so forth, the wife recovered and the witch coolly demanded a dozen or so taels of silver for her services in exorcizing her own spell!
But nothing escapes the watchful eye of the Good Lord Buddha, continued Lady Wang.
Her detection and downfall were already close at hand.
That same day, in her haste to leave the pawnbrokers premises, she inadvertently dropped a silk bundle.
The pawnbroker picked it up, took a look inside, and noticed a number of paper figures and four unusually potent cakes of incense.
He became suspicious, and when the old woman returned to recover her bundle he seized her and subjected her to a quick search.
He discovered hidden on her person a casket containing two ivory statuettes, a male and a female, both completely naked you know those pocket-sized figures of the devil they use - and seven red embroidery needles.
She was taken straight to the secret police, and when questioned revealed her intimate connections with the mistresses and young ladies of several eminent and wealthy families.
The case was reported to the highest -1307 authorities, and her house was searched.
They found quite a few clay figures of those horrible Spectral Furies and several boxes of narcotic incense also, hanging in a hidden compartment behind the kang, a Seven Star Lamp with all kinds of straw effigies spread below it, some with bands round their heads, others with nails through their chests or padlocks round their necks.
She had a whole cupboard full of spare paper figures, and there were account slips all over the floor, listing families dealt with and amounts outstanding, together with records of goodness knows how much money received for oil and incense.
Our attacks were definitely her doing!
exclaimed Xi-feng.
I remember now.
It was after we recovered - when the old witch came to visit Aunt Zhao a couple of times to collect her "contributions" - something horrible seemed to come over her when she saw me she went pale, and there was a nasty look in her eyes.
I wondered what it meant at the time, but I just couldnt see any reason for her to cause trouble.
After what youve just said, though, it all makes sense.
With my responsibilities I cant help making enemies, and some of them are bound to try and get their own back somehow or other.
But who could bear a grudge against Bao-yu?
That must be pure malice.
Or jealousy, suggested Grandmother Jia, because she knows Im not as fond of Huan as I am of Bao-yu.
Perhaps thats why she tried to harm you both.
Anyway, said Lady Wang, as the old woman is already in prison, we wont be able to call on her to testify, and without her evidence we will never be able to make Aunt Zhao confess.
Besides we simply cant have the family involved in a scandal of this sort.
We must bide our time.
She is certain to give herself away sooner or later.
Youre quite right, Grandmother Jia complimented Lady Wang.
In cases like this it is so hard to prove anything without conclusive evidence.
We must just be thankful that the all-seeing Lord Buddha and his bodhisattvas have kept our two from harm.
There!
Its all over!
And please, Feng, dont ever bring the subject up again.
You can both stay and have dinner with me.
She turned to Faithful and Amber.
Tell them we are ready to be served.
The old ladys parting shot did not go unnoticed by Xi-feng, who laughed and said So now Im the one that set you worrying, am I?
Lady Wang laughed at them both.
Meanwhile the waiting-women were standing expectantly outside the door, and Xi-feng told the junior maids that she and Lady Wang were staying to dinner and that they could commence service.
As she was speaking, Silver came in with a message for Lady Wang from Sir Zheng.
He had mislaid something, and would she go over after dinner and help him find it?
Youd better go now, said Grandmother Jia.
You never know - it might be something important.
Yes, Mother.
Leaving Xi-feng to hold the fort, Lady Wang walked over to her own apartment.
A brief search soon revealed the missing item.
Has Ying-chun gone back yet?
Jia Zheng asked her in the course of conversation.
How is she getting on with the Suns?
The poor girl could do nothing but cry while she was here, replied Lady Wang.
She says her husband is an absolute monster.
Jia Zheng sighed as she told him Ying-chuns sad tale.
I knew they were unsuited, he commented.
But what could I do?
Brother She insisted on going ahead with it.
The child will have her share of suffering, Im afraid.
Theyve not been married long, dont forget, replied Lady Wang.
We must hope that time will sort things out for them.
She suddenly laughed.
Whats the joke?
asked Jia Zheng.
-384 Oh, I just remembered some nonsense of Bao-yus.
He came here first thing this morning specially to talk to me about Ying-chun.
Oh yes?
What did he have to say?
Lady Wang gave a humorous account of her early morning interview with Bao-yu and of his brilliant plan, which despite himself Jia Zheng found rather amusing.
Speaking of Bao-yu, he said, in a more serious tone, the boy spends all his time loafing about in the garden - it simply wont do.
With ones daughters - well, one has ones disappointments, I realize, but in the long run girls get married and leave the family anyway.
With a son, however, it is totally different.
If he should fall by the wayside, the whole future of the family could be threatened.
It so happens that only the other day a friend recommended a tutor, a widely-read scholar, a man of the highest principles, and what is more a southerner like ourselves.
But I have come to the conclusion that s6uth-erners are altogether too easy-going for the boys up here in the capital, who misbehave themselves abominably and are most of them smart enough to get by without having to do a stroke of work.
Theyre a bumptious breed to begin with, and if their teacher mollycoddles them and is not prepared to take them down a peg or two, its a waste of everyones time.
That is why it has never been a family practice to engage outside tutors, and why we have always had a member of the clan, an older man, with a decent smattering of culture of course, to run the school.
Dai-ru, the present preceptor, may be rather a mediocre scholar, but hes certainly an effective disciplinarian, and sees to it that the work gets done.
Bao-yus present state of idleness is thoroughly unsatisfactory, and in my opinion the best solution would be for him to resume his studies at the Family School.
I agree with you entirely, said Lady Wang.
Since your last posting he has been constantly ill, and what with one thing and another has fallen a long way behind with his studies.
I think the routine of going to school would do him good.
Jia Zheng nodded, and they continued chatting for a while longer.
-1307 Little time was lost.
The very next day, as soon as Bao-yu was up and had finished washing and combing his hair, a deputation of pages arrived and sent in the message Sir Zheng wishes to see Master Bao.
Hurriedly tidying his clothes, Bao-yu went straight over to his fathers study.
He paid his morning respects and stood to attention.
Tell me, Jia Zheng began, what you have been doing recently in the way of work?
A fair amount, were you going to say?
A very magnum opus of your worthless doodling, no doubt...
I have observed you of late.
Your idleness goes from strength to strength.
I am also constantly hearing of some new ailment of yours, or shall we rather say ingenious pretext to play truant.
I trust I find you fully recovered?
Another thing I gather you spend the greater part of your time fooling around with your cousins in the garden, and that even the maidservants are permitted to participate in your infantile antics.
Isnt it time you grew up and acquired a little self-esteem?
You must understand that those verses you write are not going to impress anyone.
The only thing the examiners are interested in is a well-written composition.
And the effort you have expended in that direction has so far been non-existent.
Now listen carefully to what I have to say.
From today, I want you to forget all about your verses and couplets.
You are to concentrate exclusively on Octopartite Compositions.
I will give you twelve months grace.
If by the end of that time you are still in your present unregenerate state, you may as well give up altogether, and I for my part shall have to think again about owning a creature like you as my son.
He summoned Li Gui.
Inform Tealeaf that he is to take Bao-yu first thing tomorrow morning to collect the required textbooks, and then bring them here for my inspection.
I shall be accompanying him to school myself.
Turning to Bao-yu Off with you!
he trumpeted.
I shall expect you early tomorrow morning.
Bao-yu returned to Green Delights, where Aroma was anxiously awaiting him.
The pleasure with which she received the news of his renewed course of study contrasted strangely with the incredulous horror that had rendered him speechless while in Jia Zhengs presence, and that now prompted him to send an urgent message through to Grandmother Jia, begging her to intervene.
She sent for him at once and said You should give it a try, my darling.
You dont want to anger your father.
Dont worry.
Remember I shall always be here if you need me.
There was nothing for it but to go back and give the maids their instructions.
Wake me at the crack of 4awn, as Father will be waiting to take me to school.
Aroma and Musk took it in turns to stay awake that night.
In the morning Aroma woke Bao-yu punctually, helped him wash, comb his hair and dress, and sent a junior maid out with instructions for Tealeaf to wait with the books at the inner gate.
She had to spur him on a couple of times before finally he left and made his way towards the study.
On his way he stopped to inquire if Sir Zheng had arrived yet, and was informed by a page from the study that one of the literary gentlemen had just called, but had been kept waiting outside, as the Master was still in his dressing-room.
This calmed Bao-yus nerves a little, and he proceeded on to the inner sanctum.
As luck would have it, a servant was at that very moment coming out on his way to fetch him, so he went straight in.
After another brief homily, Jia Zheng led the way and father and son took a carriage to the school, Tealeaf following with the books.
A look-out had been posted, and Dai-ru had been alerted and was standing in readiness for the partys arrival.
Before the old man could come forward to greet him, however, Jia Zheng walked into the schoolroom and paid his respects.
Dai-ru took him by the hand and inquired politely after Lady Jia.
Bao-yu then went up and paid his respects.
Jia Zheng remained standing throughout, and insisted on waiting until Dai-ru was seated before sitting down himself.
I have come here today, he began, because I felt the need to entrust my son to you personally, and with a few words of instruction.
He is no longer a child, and if he is to shoulder his responsibilities and earn a place in the world, it is high time he applied himself conscientiously to preparing for his exams.
At home, unfortunately, he spends all his time idling about in the company of children.
His verses, the only field in which he has acquired any competence, are for the most part turgid juvenilia, at their best romantic trifles devoid of substance.
And he looks such a fine lad, interposed Dai-ru.
He seems so intelligent.
Why this refusal to study, this per-verse streak of hedonism?
Not that one should entirely neglect poetic composition.
But there is surely time enough for that later on in ones career.
Precisely, said Jia Zheng.
For the present I would humbly suggest a course of reading and exegesis of primary scriptural texts, and plenty of compositions.
If he should show the least sign of being a recalcitrant pupil, I earnestly beseech you to take him in hand, and in so doing to save him from a shallow and wasted life.
On this note he rose, and with a bow and a few parting remarks took his leave.
Dai-ru accompanied him to the door.
-294 Please convey my respects to Lady Jia.
I will, said Jia Zheng, and climbed into his carriage.
When Dai-ru returned to the classroom, Bao-yu was already sitting at a small rosewood desk in the south-west corner of the room, by the window.
He had two sets of texts and a meagre-looking volume of model compositions stacked in a pile on his right.
Tealeaf was instructed to put his paper, ink, brush and inkstone away in the drawer of the desk.
I understand you have been ill, Bao-yu, said Dai-ru.
I hope you are quite recovered?
-258 Bao-yu rose to his feet.
Quite recovered, thank you sir.
We must see to it that you apply yourself with zeal from now on.
Your father is most insistent that you should do well.
Start by revising the texts you have already memorized.
Your timetable will be as follows -1467 Pre-prandium - General Revision Post-prandium - Calligraphy Meridianum - Exegesis And conclude the days work by reciting quietly to yourself a few model compositions.
That should do for the time being.
-294 Yes sir.
As Bao-yu sat down again, he glanced around him.
Most of the old faces from the Jokey Jin days were gone, and in their place were quite a few new boys.
He reflected on their exceptionally boorish appearance, and the face of Qin Zhong came suddenly into his mind.
Since the death of his friend there had been no one to keep him company in his studies, no one to share his innermost thoughts.
He was overwhelmed with a sense of grief and loneliness, and sat silently staring at his books.
Not long afterwards Dai-ru came over to say that as this was his first day he could leave early.
Tomorrow, he said, I shall go through a passage with you.
On second thoughts, to do justice to your natural intelligence, I should like you to expound a passage or two for me.
That will give me a clearer idea of the sort of work you have been doing and the standard you have reached.
Bao-yus heart was already thumping.
But to learn how he fared the following day, you must read the next chapter.
CHAPTER 82 An 0 1d pedant tries to instil some Moral Philosophy into his incorrigible pupil And the ailing Naiad, in a nightmare, confronts the spectres of her fevered mind Bravo!
cried Grandmother Jia as Bao-yu came in from school.
So theyve finally broken in my frisky colt!
Come along now, your father will be expecting to see you Im sure.
Then you must find something nice and relaxing to do.
Yes, Grannie.
Bao-yu reported to the study.
Back already?
said Jia Zheng.
Well, has the Preceptor given you a scheme of work?
Bao-yu rehearsed his timetable Pre-prandium - General Revision Post-prandium - Calligraphy Meridianum - Exegesis and reading of model compositions.
Hm... Jia Zheng nodded.
Fair enough.
Off you go now and keep your grandmother company for a little while.
Lets see if you can turn over a new leaf and behave seriously from now on.
No more of the old childish nonsense, eh?
Go to bed on time, rise early, and attend your classes regularly.
Understood?
With a string of fluent Yes Sirs, Bao-yu backed smartly out of the study.
He hurried over to see his mother, put in another brief appearance at Grandmother Jias - so brief that he hardly had time to turn around - then dashed off once more, impatient to reach the Naiads House.
Im back!
he called from outside the doorway.
The unexpectedness of his arrival, and the explosion of laughing and clapping that announced it, gave Dai-yu quite a turn.
Nightingale drew aside the portiere and he walked in and sat himself down.
Does my memory fail me, said Dai-yu, or didnt I hear something to the effect that you were going to school today?
Havent you been let off rather early?
Goodness!
exclaimed Bao-yu.
I can hardly believe it!
Yes, Father did banish me to that place - what an ordeal!
I dont know how I stuck it out!
I thought Id never see you all again!
But now, one glimpse of you has raised my spirit from the dead!
How does the old Song go?
Twas scarce a day we were apart It seemed three autumns long!
Thats just how I feel.
Have you been to see Grandmother and your parents?
asked Dai-yu.
Yes, yes... And the others?
Not yet.
Shouldnt you go and see them now?
But I dont feel like going anywhere.
All I want to do is sit here and chat with you for a bit.
Anyway Father says from now on its "early to bed and early to rise" so the others will have to wait until tomorrow.
Very well then, said Dai-yu.
A short stay.
Then you must be sensible and go and lie down.
But Im not tired, protested Bao-yu.
Just fed up with all that.
Its doing me a world of good in fact, being here with you, if youd only stop thinking of all these things I should be doing.
A faint smile crossed Dai-yus face.
Nightingale, would you make Master Bao a cup of Dragon Well tea?
We must see that scholarship is suitably rewarded.
Nightingale smiled and went to fetch the tea, which she entrusted.
to one of the junior maids.
Bao-yu reacted smartly.
Scholarship!
Why, youre almost beginning to sound like one of them!
I cant abide all that hypocritical moralizing.
And those absurd Octopartite essays, which they have the nerve to call "Propagation of Holy Writ", are nothing more than a shoddy way of worming themselves into a job.
The wh6le thing makes me sick!
Not content with botching together a few classical tags, they try to hide the fact that they havent got a single original idea of their own by churning out a lot of far-fetched purple passages -and then pride themselves on having been "subtle" and "profound".
Urrghhh!
Holy Writ!
Holy Pretentious Humbug Id call it!
I know Father is forcing that sort of thing down my throat at present, and I just have to grin and bear it, but thats no reason for you to go on about it the moment Im back.
I know girls dont have to read Octopartites, replied Dai-yu.
But when I was little and was having lessons with your cousin Yu-cun, I looked at a few and remember thinking that some were quite well thought out and sensibly written.
One or two were even quite subtle, and had a certain delicate charm.
They were rather above my head at the time, but I still enjoyed reading them.
Its Silly to run them all down.
Anyway, I think if you want to get on in life, this is quite an admirable way of doing it.
Bao-yu could hardly believe his ears.
What had come over Dai-yu?
She had never preached wordly wisdom at him like this before.
Not wishing to provoke a full-scale argument, however, he restricted himself to a little snort of amazement.
Meanwhile, voices could be heard outside.
Aroma sent me to Her Old Ladyships to fetch Master Bao home from school.
It was Ripple.
Ive tracked him down at last!
Go on, replied Nightingale.
Let him drink his tea first.
Its just this minute been made.
The two maids came in together, and Bao-yu laughed I was just on my way, Ripple you shouldnt have bothered to come.
Youd best drink your tea and be off!
Nightingale chimed in, before Ripple could get a word in.
Cant you see how theyve been pining for you all day... Pscht!
You mean little fibber!
cried Ripple, rising perfectly to the bait.
Everyone laughed.
Bao-yu finally stood up to say goodbye, and Dai-yu saw him to the door.
Nightingale stood at the foot of the steps till he was on his way, and then she too went back indoors.
When Bao-yu arrived at Green Delights, Aroma emerged from the inner room to greet him.
Finished scho6l then?
she asked.
Oh, Master Baos been back for ages, Ripple answered for him.
Hes been at Miss Lins.
Did anything happen while I was away?
asked Bao-yu.
Oh, nothing much, replied Aroma pointedly.
Just a lecture from Faithful.
Her Ladyship sent her to let us know that this time the Master is in deadly earnest about your studies, and if any of us dares to play the fool with you again, well be dealt with like Skybright and Chess.
She sighed.
We do our very best to serve you, and thats all the thanks we get.
Its all so pointless.
Her evident distress brought a swift reply from Bao-yu.
My poor Aroma!
Youve no need to worry.
So long as I work hard, none of you need ever hear another word from Mother.
Im going to do some work this evening, as the Preceptor wants me to do some exposition tomorrow.
If theres anything I need, Musk and Ripple can get it for me, so you go and have a rest.
If only you would work hard, said Aroma, it would be a joy to serve you.
Inspired by her words, Bao-yu bolted his supper, had his reading-lamp lit and sat down straight away to revise his basic texts, the Four Books of Confucian Scripture.
One glance at the first page, however, with its columns of heavily annotated text, and he began to experience a familiar sinking feeling.
He tried flicking through one volume, and the general drift seemed clear enough but the moment he went into it in any detail, it seemed to slip from his grasp.
He turned for help to the marginal commentaries, he read the expository essays, keeping up the struggle till late in the evening.
Poems are easy, he thought to himself.
But I cant make head or tail of this stuff.
He sat back, gazed at the ceiling and was soon lost in a daydream.
Bedtime, said Aroma firmly.
Youve done quite enough work for this evening.
Bao-yu gave an inaudible reply.
Musk and Aroma helped him into bed, and then went to sleep themselves.
During the night, they woke to hear him tossing and turning on the kang.
Are you still awake?
said Aroma.
You must stop fretting and have a good nights sleep.
You can work hard again tomorrow.
I know, replied Bao-yu.
But I just cant get to sleep.
Come and take off one of my covers.
Its a cold night.
Youd better keep it on.
I feel so restless!
He threw back the top cover himself.
Aroma immediately clambered over to tuck it in again, and put her hand to his brow.
It felt slightly feverish.
Lie still!
she said.
Youve a fever.
I know.
Whats the matter?
Its nothing.
Im just nervous, thats all.
Please dont make a thing of it.
If Father finds out, hes bound to say Im cooking up an excuse to miss school.
It would seem too much of a coincidence.
Ill feel better in the morning, and once Im at school itll go away.
Aroma gave in.
Ill sleep here by your side, she said.
She massaged his back a little and in no time they were both fast asleep.
When they woke next morning the sun was already high in the sky.
Help!
cried Bao-yu.
Im late!
He quickly washed and combed his hair, completed his round of m6rhing duties and set off for school.
The Preceptors severe expression as he walked into the schoolroom did not bode well.
Tardy, boy, tardy!
What is the meaning of this?
Small wonder that you have incurred your fathers displeasure and caused him to call you his prodigal son, if this is the way you think you can behave on your second day.
Bao-yu told him of his fever the night before, then crossed over to his desk and sat down to his work.
It was late in the afternoon when he was called forward.
Bao-yu, step up here.
Oral Exposition of this text.
-640 Bao-yu walked up.
On inspection, he found to his relief that it was a rubric he knew.
Analects, chapter IX, verse XXII Maxima Debetur Puero Reverentia - RESPECT DUE TO YOUTH.
What a stroke of luck!
he thought to himself.
Thank goodness its not from the Mag Young scholars of that time were wont to use these affectionate abbreviations to refer to those two other venerable texts of Scripture, the Magna Scientia or Great Learning and the Medium Immutabile or Doctrine of the Mean.
-454 or the Med!
How do you wish me to begin, sir?
Amplzficatio Totius, boy.
Give the substance of the passage carefully in your own words.
Bao-yu first recited the original chapter, in the prescribed sing-song intonation, and then began In this verse we have the Sages Exhortation to Youth to Seize the Hour and Strive with Zeal, lest they end up becoming... Bao-yu looked up at Dai-ru.
The Preceptor sensed what was coming and tried to conceal his embarrassment with a short laugh Come on boy, come on.
What is holding you back?
Are you afraid of using a non-licet expression up to books?
Remember Scriptural Exegesis is exempt from the normal rules of Verbal Prohibition.
Liber Rituum, Book I "In Canonicorum Classicorumque Librorum Studus Nomenclationum cessat Prohibitio."
What may they end up becoming?
Complete Failures, sir, said Bao-yu, barely suppressing a mischievous smile.
In the first Segment, Sunt Verendi, the Sage is Spurring Youth on to Moral Endeavour in the Present, while the last Segment, Non Sunt Digni Quos Verearis, contains his Caution for the Future.
He looked up again at Dai-ru.
-294 That will do.
Interpretatio Partium.
Bao-yu began again Confucius saith "For the Duration of Youth, each Spiritual and Mental Talent must be held in Due Esteem.
For how can we ever Predict with Certainty anothers Ultimate Station in Life?
But if a man, by Drifting and Wasting his Days, should reach the Age of Forty or Fifty and still be Unsuccessful and Obscure, then it can fairly be said that his Youthful Promise was an Empty One.
14e will have Forfeited For Ever the Esteem of his Fellow Men."
Your Arnplificatio Totius was passably clear, commented Dai-ru with a dry smile.
But I am afraid your In terpretatio Partium showed a good deal of immaturity.
In the phrase sine Nomine, Nomen refers not to Success in the Worldly Sense but rather to an Individuals Achievement in the Moral and Intellectual Spheres.
In this sense it by no means implies Official Rank.
On the contrary, many of the Great Sages of Antiquity were Obscure Failures who Withdrew from the World and yet we hold them in the Highest Esteem, do we not?
Nonne sunt Digni quos Vereamur?
You construe the last sentence incorrectly, he droned on.
Here it is not the element of Esteem but the Irreconcilable Nature of the Judgement of his Fellow Men that is being contrasted with their Tentative Appraisal of him as a Youth see second sentence of your text.
This emphasis is central to a Correct Elucidation of the passage.
Do you follow me?
Yes, sir.
Good.
Here is another.
Dai-ru turned back a few pages and pointed out a passage to Bao-yu.
It was Analects again, this time chapter IX, verse XVIII Ego nondum vidi qui amet Virtutem sicut amat Pulchram Spedem - THE RARITY OF A SINCERE LOVE OF VIRTUE.
Bao-yu scented danger ahead and said with his most ingenuous smile Im afraid I cant think of anything to say, sir.
Nonsense, my boy!
Is that what you would write if it turned up as a Thema in your paper Reluctantly Bao-yu set the wheels in motion.
Confucius saith Men will not love Virtue, and yet they Fall Down and Worship Sensual Beauty at First Sight.
The Reason for this Disaffection is that they are Blind to the Intrinsicality of Virtue.
Beauty is an Intrinsic Quality too, and as such Loved by All, but it belongs to the Realm of Human Desire, whereas Virtue is a Natural Principle.
How can Principle hope to Compete with Desire for the Affections of men?
Confucius is both Lamenting the State of the World and Hoping for a Change of Heart.
The Love of Virtue he has observed has been for the most part a Shallow and Short-lived Affair.
How Fine it would be if only men would feel for Virtue the Devotion they feel towards Beauty...
Thank you, that will do, said Dai-ru.
I have but one question to put to you.
If you understand the words of Confucius so well, why is it that you transgress these very two Precepts?
I am only an outsider, but without need of explanation from your Father I can identify your Moral Shortcomings.
One cannot hope to become a Man except by dint of Constant Self-Improvement.
You are at present a Youth of Promise, or as our text has it Puer Verendus.
Whether or not you Fulfil this Promise depends entirely on your own efforts.
Are you to be a Man of Merit, Vir Nominis, or are you to be a Man No Longer Esteemed by his Fellow-Men, Vir Non lam Verendus?
I shall allow you an initial period of one month in which to revise your old texts thoroughly, and a further month in which to study models of Octopartite Composition.
At the end of the second month I intend to set you your Maiden Theme.
If I detect any sign of slackness on your part, y6u need not expect me to be lenient.
As the saying goes -1414 Perfection comes through ceaseless effort Effortless ease brings but perditidn.
Be sure to bear in mind all that I have said.
Yes sir.
And so we must leave Bao-yu for the present, submitting reluctantly to his daily lessons.
During his absence at school, Green Delights became unrecognizably quiet and the days passed slowly and uneventfully.
Aroma even found time to do some sewing.
One day she sat down to finish a betel-nut refresher bag she had been embroidering, and fell to thinking of the great change wrought in all their lives by Bao-yus new routine.
How easy life was for the maids now that he was away all day!
If things had only been like this earlier, Skybright might never have come to such a wretched end.
Poor Skybright!
Aroma sighed for does not the hare in the trap set the foxs heart a-beating?
It was the shortest step from grieving for Skybright to brooding over her own future.
What was to become of her?
What sort of a life would she lead, asBao-yus concubine?
Bao-yu himself was no problem.
She knew how to handle him.
But what if he were to marry someone like Mrs Lian or Mr Pans new wife?
Was she fated to be a second You Er-jie or Caltrop?
To judge from Lady Jia and Lady Wangs attitude in the past, and from the frequent hints dropped by Mrs Lian, it seemed a foregone conclusion that he would marry Miss Lin.
Now there was a complicated young lady... With this new turn of thought Aromas colour deepened, her heart beat faster and her aim with the needle became more and more erratic.
Finally she aband9ned her embroidery altogether and set off for the Naiads House, determined to put Dai-yus disposition t 9 wards her to the test.
Dai-yu was reading a book.
When she saw Aroma come in, she moved over slightly and nodded to her to sit down.
I hope youre feeling quite better, Miss, began Aroma, anxious to create the right impression.
Not really, replied Dai-yu.
I suppose I do feel a little less weak.
What have you been doing at home?
Now that Master Baos at school, replied Aroma, its very quiet at home, so I thought Id come round for a chat.
Nightingale came in with tea and Aroma rose promptly to her feet.
Please sit down, Nightingale dear.
She laughed as she continued.
Youve been making fun of us, so Ripple was telling me the other day... You dont take any notice of what she says, do you?
said Nightingale with a smile.
All I meant was that with Master Bao away at school all day, and Miss Chai and Caltrop both living out, things must be dull for you.
-384 Aroma seized her opportunity Caltrop, did I hear you say?
Oh, that poor girl!
I feel so sorry for her!
This new wife of Mr Pans is a Total Eclipse if ever there was one!
Shes even worse than a certain person...
Here Aroma held up two fingers, indicating the Second Young Lady of the household - Xi-feng.
This Mrs Pan doesnt seem to care a bit what people think.
That certain person was bad enough, said Dai-yu.
To think that You Er-jie is dead!
I know, said Aroma.
They were both human beingsafter all.
It was only their positions that were different.
Why did she have to be so malicious?
It hasnt done the family name any good.
This was the first time Dai-yu had heard Aroma gossip like this, and she began to suspect what was at the back of it.
Its hard to tell, she said.
In every family affair, one side or the other has to win.
If its not the East Wind its the West.
A concubine should know her place, said Aroma.
She should be too scared to take advantage of the wife.
At this point in the conversation an old womans voice was heard in the outer courtyard.
Is this where Miss Lin lives?
Which maid is in charge here?
Snowgoose went out to see who it was, and vaguely recognized her as one of Aunt Xues serving-women.
What do you want?
she asked.
Im here on an errand for Miss Bao-chai, replied the woman.
Something for Miss Lin.
Wait here a minute.
Snowgoose went in to consult with Dai-yu, who told her to show the old woman in.
Once inside the room, she curtseyed to Dai-yu, then screwed up her eyes and peered at her curiously.
Not a word of her errand.
Dai-yu began to feel rather embarrassed, and asked what it was that Bao-chai had sent over.
A pot of honeyed lychees is what Ive been instructed by Miss Bao-chai to bring to you, Miss Lin, replied the old woman, her features relaxing into a smile.
Then she spotted Aroma in the room.
Why, if it isnt Master Baos maid, Miss Hua!
Thats right, nanny dear, replied Aroma.
And how did you come to know who I was?
Well, looking after Madams room as we do, we hardly ever go out visiting with Madam and Miss Bao-chai, so you wouldnt recognize us.
But we remember just about all the young ladies that come round our way.
She handed the pot to Snowgoose, took another look at Dai-yu, then turned back to Aroma and said with a confidential smile No wonder our Madam says that Miss Lin and your Master Bao were made for one another!
She really does look just like a fairy!
Aroma made a valiant attempt to avert any further blunders.
Come along, nanny, you must be tired.
Why dont you sit down and have a cup of tea?
Oh no - were much too busy at home today, the old girl cackled on regardless.
Weve everything to prepare for Miss Bao-qins Giving-away.
And Ive still two pots of lychees to deliver to Master Bao-yu from Miss Bao-chai.
She took her leave and went waddling busily out of the room.
Dai-yu, who for Bao-chais sake had tried to disguise her annoyance at the way the old woman had come barging in, called out after her Please thank Miss Bao-chai for her kind present.
La-di-da-di-da!
the old.
girl could still be heard burbling away to herself.
Only Bao-yu would have the style to match such a fine lady... Dai-yu pretended not to hear.
Really, said Aroma, trying to laugh the whole thing off, when people reach her age they just talk utter nonsense.
You dont know whether to scold or laugh.
-294 Snowgoose passed the lychees to Dai-yu.
I couldnt put them away, would you?
They chatted a little longer and.
then Aroma left.
That evening, when Dai-yu went into her side-room to undress for the night, she caught sight of the lychees again.
They reminded her of the old womans visit, and revived the pain she had felt at her tactless gossiping.
Dusk was falling, and in the stillness a thousand gloomy thoughts seemed to close in and oppress her mind.
My health is so poor... And times running out.
I know Bao-yu loves me more than anyone else.
But Grannie and Aunt Wang still havent mentioned it!
If only my parents had settled it for us while they were still alive..
But suppose they had?
What if they had married me to someone else?
Who could ever compare with Bao-yu?
Perhaps Im better off like this after all!
At least Ive still some hope.
Like the rope on a pulley her secret hopes and fears spun up and down, tangling themselves tighter and tighter round her heart.
Finally, with a sigh and a few tears, she lay down in her clothes, weary and depressed.
She became vaguely aware of one of the junior maids coming in and saying Miss Lin, Mr Jia Yu-cun is outside and wants to see you.
What could he want?
thought Dai-vu to herself.
Im not a regular student of his.
Im not even a boy.
He just happened to coach me when I was a little girl.
Anyway, all the times hes come to see Uncle Zheng hes never once asked after me, so why should I have to see him now?
She told the maid to convey her respects and thank Mr Yu-cun for calling, but to say that poor health obliged her to stay in bed.
But Miss, said the maid, I think hes come to congratulate you, and some people have come to take you to Nanking.
As she was speaking, a group including Xi-feng, Lady Xing, Lady Wang and Bao-chai advanced into the room and announced cheerfully Congratulations my dear!
And bon voyage!
What do you mean?
asked Dai-yu in great confusion.
Come on now.
It was Xi-feng who replied.
You neednt try and pretend you havent heard the news.
Your fathers been promoted to Grain Intendant for Hupeh Province and has made a second and highly satisfactory marriage.
He doesnt think it right that you should be left here on your own, and has asked Yu-cun to act as go-between.
Youre engaged to be married to a relation of your new stepmothers, a widower himself I believe.
Theyve sent some servants to fetch you home.
Youll probably be married straight away.
Its all your stepmothers idea.
In case youre not properly taken care of on the voyage, she has asked your cousin Lian to accompany you.
Xi-fengs words made Dai-yu break out in a cold sweat.
She now had a feeling that her father was still alive.
She began to panic, and said defiantly Its not true!
Its all a trick of Xi-fengs!
She saw Lady Xing give Lady Wang a meaningful look She wont believe us.
Come, we are wasting our time.
Aunt Wang!
Aunt Xing!
Dont go!
Dai-yu begged them, fighting back her tears.
But she received no reply.
They all gave her a curious smile, and then left together.
As she stood there and watched them go, panic seized her.
She tried to speak, but the only sound that came was a strangled sobbing from the back of her throat.
Then she looked about her and saw that somehow she had been transported to Grandmother Jias apartment.
In that same instant she thought to herself Grannies the only one that can save me now!
and fell at the old ladys feet, hugging her by the knees.
Save me Grannie, please!
Id rather die than go away with them!
That stepmothers not my real mother anyway.
I just want to stay here with you!
Grandmother Jias face only registered a cold smile.
This has nothing to do with me.
But whats to become of me, Grannie?
she sobbed.
Being a mans second wife has its advantages, Grandmother Jia replied.
Think of the double dowry youll have.
If I stay, I w 6 nt cause you any extra expense, I promise I wont.
Oh please save me!
Its no use, said Grandmother Jia.
All girls marry and leave home.
Youre a child and dont understand these things.
You cant live here for ever, you know.
Ill do anything to stay - Ill work for my keep, be a slave, anything!
Only please dont let them take me away!
This time Grandmother Jia made no reply.
Dai-yu hugged her again and sobbed Oh Grannie!
Youve always been so good to me, fussed over me so - how can you treat me like this in my hour of need?
Dont you care about me any more?
I may not be one of your real grandchildren, a true Jia like the others, but my mother was your own daughter, your own flesh and blood!
For her sake have pity on me!
Dont let me be taken away!
With these last words she flung herself frantically upon Lady Jia, burying her head in her lap and sobbing violently.
Faithful, the old lady commanded, take Miss Dai-yu to her room to rest.
She is wearing me out.
There was no mistaking the finality in Grandmother Jias voice.
To Dai-yu, suicide now seemed the only course.
She rose, and as she walked from the room her heart yearned for a mother of her own to turn to.
All the affection shown her by grandmother, aunts and cousins alike, had now been exposed for what it was and had been all along - a sham.
Suddenly she thought Why havent I seen Bao-yu today?
He might still know of a way out.
And as the thought entered her mind, she looked up and sure enough, there, standing right in front of her, all laughter and smiles, was Bao-yu himself.
My warmest congratulations, coz!
This was too much for Dai-yu.
Her last vestige of maidenly reserve vanished.
She clutched hold of him and cried out Now I know how heartless and cruel you really are, Bao-yu!
No, you are wrong, he replied.
But if you have a husband to go to, then we must go our separate ways.
Dai-yu listened in despair as this, her very last hope, was taken from her.
Clinging to him helplessly, she gave a feverish cry Oh Bao!
Ive no separate way to go!
How could you say such a thing!
If you dont want to go, then stay here, he replied calmly.
You were originally engaged to me.
Thats why you came to live here.
Has it never occurred to you how specially Ive always treated you?
Havent you noticed?
Suddenly it all seemed clear.
She really was engaged to Bao-yu after all.
Of course she was!
In an instant her despair changed to joy.
My mind is made up once and for ever!
But you must give me the word.
Am I to go?
Or am I to stay?
Ive told you, stay here with me.
If you still dont trust me, look at my heart.
With these words he took out a small knife and brought it down across his chest.
Blood came spurting out.
Terrified out of her wits, Dai-yu tried to staunch the flow with her hand, crying out How could you?
You should have killed me first!
Dont worry, said Bao-yu.
Im going to show you my heart.
He fumbled about inside the gaping flesh, while Dai-yu, shaking convulsively, afraid someone might burst in on them at any moment, pressed him to her tightly and wept bitterly.
Oh no!
said Bao-yu.
Its not there any more!
My time has come!
His eyes flickered and he fell with a dull thud to the floor.
Dai-yu let out a piercing scream.
She heard Nightingale calling her Miss Lin!
Miss Lin!
Youre having a nightmare!
Wake up!
Come along now, you must get undressed and go to sleep properly.
Dai-yu turned over in her bed.
So it had all been a nightmare.
But she could still feel her throat choking, her heart was still pounding, the top of her pillow was drenched in sweat, and a tingly, icy sensation ran down her back and chilled her to the core.
Mother and father died long ago.
Bao-yu and I have never been engaged, she thought to herself.
What ever could have made me have such a dream?
The scenes of her dream passed before her eyes again.
She was on her own in the world, she reflected.
Supposing Bao-yu really died - what then?
The thought was enough to bring back all the pain and confusion.
She began to weep, and tiny beads of sweat broke out down the length of her body.
Finally she struggled up, took off her outer robe and told Nightingale to make the bed.
She lay down again, and began turning restlessly from side to side, unable to get to sleep.
She could hear the gentle sighing of the wind outside her window - or was it the drizzle falling softly on the roof?
Once, the sound died away and she thought she could hear someone calling in the distance.
But it was only Nightingale, who had already fallen asleep and was snoring in a corner of the room.
With a great effort, Dai-yu struggled out of bed, wrapped the quilt around her and sat up.
An icy draught from a crack in the casement soon sent her shivering back under the covers again.
She was just beginning to doze off when the Sparrows struck up their dawn-chorus from their nests in the bamboos.
First light was gradually beginning to show through the shutters and paper window-panes.
Dai-yu was now wide awake again and started coughing.
Nightingale awoke at once.
Still awake, Miss?
Coughing too - it sounds as if youve caught a chill.
Why, its almost light, itll soon be morning!
Please try and stop thinking so much, and rest.
You need to sleep.
I want to sleep, replied Dai-yu.
But whats the good?
I just cant.
You go back to sleep anyway.
These last words were interrupted by another fit of coughing.
Nightingale was already distressed at her mistresss condition and had no inclination to go back to sleep.
When she heard her coughing again, she hurried over to hold up the spittoon.
By now it was dawn outside.
Havent you gone to sleep?
asked Dai-yu.
Sleep?
replied Nightingale cheerfully.
Its already day-light.
In that case, could you change the spittoon?
Certainly Miss.
Leaving the full spittoon on a table in the outer room, Nightingale went promptly to fetch a fresh one, which she placed at the foot of the kang.
Then, closing the door of the inner room carefully behind her and letting down the flower-patterned portiere she went out to wake Snow-goose, taking the full spittoon with her.
When she came to empty it in the courtyard, and looked closer, she noticed to her horror some specks of blood in the phlegm.
Goodness!
she blurted out.
How awful!
Whats the matter?
Dai-yu called out at 6nce from in-side.
Oh nothing, Miss!
Nightingale tried her best to cover up her blunder.
The spittoon slipped in my hand and 4 nearly dropped it.
You didnt find anything odd in the phlegm?
Oh no, Miss.
A lump came into Nightingales throat, and she could say no more.
Tears came streaming down her cheeks.
Dai-yu had already noticed a sickly taste in her mouth, and her earlier suspicions were strengthened first by Nightingales cry of alarm, and now by the unmistakable note of dismay in her voice.
Come in, she told Nightingale.
It must be cold outside.
-384 Im coming, Miss.
She sounded more disconsolate than ever.
Her tragic snuffly tone set Dai-yu shivering.
The door opened and she walked in, still dabbing her eyes with a handkerchief.
Come along now, said Dai-yu.
Crying so early in the morning.
Whos crying?
said Nightingale, doing her best to smile.
Its so early and my eyes are a bit itchy, thats all.
You were awake longer than ever last night, werent you, Miss?
I could hear you coughing half the night.
I know.
The more I wanted to sleep, the wider awake I became.
Youre not well, Miss.
I think all this worrying is ruining your health.
And good health is like the hill in the proverb -1227 Keep the hill green, keep the hill green, And youll never lack fuel for winter again.
Besides, everyone here cares for you so.
Her Old Ladyship does, Her Ladyship does, everyone does!
How could Nightingale know that the mere mention of these homely names, intended to reassure and comfort, was enough to conjure up again the horror of the nightmare?
Dai-yu felt her heart thumping, everything went black before her eyes, and she seemed on the point of fainting altogether.
Nightingale quickly held out the spittoon while Snowgoose patted her lightly on the back.
After a long while she coughed up another mouthful of phlegm.
In it was a thick wriggling strand of dark red blood.
The two maids were pale with fright.
They stood supporting her, one on each side, until finally she slumped back, scarcely conscious.
Nightingale, aware of the critical nature of her condition, looked at Snowgoose and made an urgent movement with her lips that clearly meant Go and fetch someone - quickly!
Snowgoose was no sooner out of the door than she saw Kingfisher and Ebony coming towards the Naiads House, smiling as they walked along.
Isnt Miss Lin up yet?
inquired Kingfisher cheerfully.
My mistress and Miss Tan-chun are both round at Miss Xi-chuns discussing her painting of the garden.
Snowgoose hushed them both with a quick gesture.
Whats the matter?
they asked in alarm.
Snowgoose told them all that had happened, and they shot out their tongues in horror.
But thats serious!
Why havent you been to tell Her Old Ladyship?
What a terrible thing!
How could you be so silly!
I was on my way when you two arrived, replied Snowgoose.
Whos that talking outside?
called Nightingale from the bedroom.
Miss Lin wants to know.
The three of them went in together, to find Dai-yu lying wrapped up in bed.
Whats all the excitement about?
she asked them.
Whos been telling you tales?
It was Ebony who replied Miss Tan-chun and Miss Xiang-yun have just gone over to Miss Xi-chuns to discuss her landscape of the garden, and they sent us here to ask you to join them, Miss Lin.
Were sorry to hear that youre not well.
Its nothing serious, said Dai-yu.
Im just feeling a bit weak, thats all.
Ill be up when Ive had a little rest.
Will you tell Miss Tan-chun and Miss Xiang-yun that I should like them to come here after lunch, if theyre not too busy?
I dont suppose Master Baos been over there, has he?
No, Miss, came the reply.
Master Bao has been going to school the last few days, continued Ebony, and the Master tests him every day, so he doesnt get a chance to romp around as he used to.
Dai-yu was silent and thoughtful.
The two maids stood around for a minute or two longer and then discreetly withdrew.
At the Lotus Pavilion, Xi-chuns painting of Prospect Garden was being subjected to an aesthetic appraisal by Tan-chun and Xiang-yun.
Too much here, not enough there, a little too thin in one place, too crowded in another.
They were thinking of adding a poetry inscription, and had sent to ask for Dai-yus advice.
They were busily talking when Kingfisher and Ebony came back, looking very flustered.
Xiang-yun was the first to question them Why hasnt Miss Lin come with you?
She had a bad relapse last night, Miss, replied King-fisher, and was up coughing most of the night.
According to Snowgoose the phlegm it her spittoon was flecked with blood.
Are you sure?
asked Tan-chun, aghast.
Quite sure, replied Kingfisher.
Weve just been in to see her, Miss, said Ebony.
She looks dreadful, and hardly has the strength to speak.
If shes as sick as that, shes hardly likely to be able to speak, said Xiang-yun bluntly.
What nonsense, Yun!
Why if she couldnt speak that would mean she was ....... Tan-chun broke off in mid-sentence.
Dai is a clever soul, said Xi-chun.
But she does have a tendency to take everything too seriously.
If only she could see beyond it all.
We must go and see how she is, anyway, said Tanchun.
If it is serious, wed better tell Cousin Wan and let Grannie know, so they can send for a doctor and find out what to do.
Xiang-yun agreed, and she and Tan-chun set off with a couple of junior maids for the Naiads House.
Xi-chun said she would follow later.
The sight of the girls coming into her room gave Dai-yu a queer feeling, and set her brooding once more over her dream.
If Grandmother Jia had proved so cold in the dream, wouldnt Tan and Yun have been even more so?
Would they even have bothered to come and see her now, she wondered, if she had not made a point of asking them to?
Not allowing these doubts to show, she made a big effort and told Nightingale to prop her up, murmuring to the others to sit down.
Tan-chun and Xiang-yun sat one at each end of the bed, deeply moved by the sight of Dai-yu in this condition.
What do you think is the matter, Dai?
asked Tan-chun.
Oh, its nothing serious.
I just feel so drained.
Nightingale, who was standing on the other side of Daiyu, secretly pointed to the spittoon, and Xiang-yun the younger and by nature less circumspect of the two girls picked it up and had a look.
It was too late Ith thith yourth, Dai?
she asked in a voice of horror.
How awful!
Earlier Dai-yu had been too faint and overwrought to examine the contents of her spittoon.
But now Xiangyuns question reawakened her suspicions.
Her heart sank as she turned to look.
Tan-chun tried to cover up for Xiang-yun That only means youve got some inflammation on your lungs, and have brought a little up.
Its quite common.
Yuns so pathetic the way she goes on about the slightest thing!
Xiang-yun blushed and wished she had never opened her mouth.
Tan-chun could see how low Dai-yus spirits were, and how tired she was.
She rose to leave You must rest and build up your strength.
Well leave you now and call back again later.
Thank you both for thinking of me.
Mind you look after Miss Lin properly now, Nightingale.
Yes, Miss Tan-chun.
They were about to leave, when the hushed atmosphere was rudely disturbed by a voice shouting outside.
But if you wish to learn whose voice it was, you must turn to the next chapter.
CHAPTER 83 An Indisposition in the Imperial Bedchamber calls for a Family Visitation While insubordination in the inner apartments reveals Bao-chais long-suffering nature It was told in our last chapter how Dai-yus visitors, who were on the point of leaving, heard a voice outside the window crying Whats a little trouble-maker like you doing here in the garden anyway?
Youre nothing but a nuisance!
Dai-yu immediately let out a great cry I cant stay here any longer!
She rolled her eyes and gestured with one hand in the direction of the window.
The truth is that after all this time, despite Grand-mother Jias constant love and protection, Dai-yu still suffered from an acute sense of insecurity, of being an outsider in the Garden.
On this occasion, incredible though it may seem, she had instinctively taken herself to be the target of the old womans abuse for the voice was that of an old serving-woman, and had immediately set about reconstructing the plot in her mind someone, taking advantage of the fact that she was an orphan, had sent this woman to insult her in public.
She was being persecuted!
The sense of injury, the unfairness of it, were more than she could bear.
Another fit of sobbing left her unconscious.
Whats the matter, Miss?
Nightingale was in tears herself.
Please wake up!
Tan-chun also called out in an effort to rouse her, and eventually Dai-yu came round.
She could not speak, and her only explanation was another gesture towards the window.
Tan-chun understood.
She opened the door and went outside, to discover the old woman, with a stick in her hand, chasing a scruffy little maid.
Im trying to get on with my gardening, she was grumbling.
Youve no business to be here.
Just wait till we get home and I get my hands on you!
Ill learn you!
The little girl merely cocked her head, stuck a finger in her mouth and stared at the old woman with a cheeky grin.
Have you both taken leave of your senses?
exclaimed Tan-chun severely.
How dare you use language like that here?
When the old woman saw who it was, she pulled herself up smartly and answered with her most ingratiating smile Its my daughters girl here, Miss Tan-chun.
She would follow me over you see, and I knew shed only be a nuisance so I was shooing her along home.
Dearie me, if Id stopped to think where I was Id never have dared raise my voice Im sure.
Thats quite enough, said Tan-chun.
Off you go both of you.
Miss Lin is not feeling very well today - so hurry up and go!
Yes Miss!
Straightaway Miss!
The old girl bustled off and her granddaughter went running after her.
Returning indoors, Tan-chun found Xiang-yun holding Dai-yus hand and crying helplessly, while Nightingale was supporting her mistress with one hand and using her free hand to rub her chest.
Slowly the life returned to Dai-yus eyes and she looked up.
Tan-chun smiled kindly Did you take offence at what that old woman said?
Dai-yu answered with a feeble shake of the head.
It was her own granddaughter she was shouting at, Tan-chun went on to explain.
She told me all about it.
People like her are the end.
They never know when to hold their tongue.
Dai-yu sighed and held Tan-chuns hand.
Oh Tan... she cried feebly, but could say no more.
There, you mustnt start worrying, said Tan-chun.
Were cousins and cousins should stick by one another.
Thats why I came to see you.
Besides, I know youre a bit short of help.
Listen, all you have to do is take your medicine like a good girl and look on the bright side a bit, and youll soon start to build up your strength.
And then we can start having meetings of our poetry club again, and everything will be fine.
Tans right, echoed Xiang-yun.
Wont that be fun!
Oh, if only you knew!
sobbed Dai-yu.
I feel so weak.
I dont think Ill ever pull through.
Thats no way to talk, said Tan-chun.
We all fall ill, we all have our troubles.
Theres no cause for you to be so pessimistic.
Be sensible and have a good rest now.
Yun and I had better go over to Grannies.
Well come and see you again later.
If theres anything you need, tell Nightingale and Ill send it over for you.
Tan, when you see Grannie, you wont say Im very ill, will you?
Please!
Tears were streaming down Dai-yus face as she spoke.
Just curtsey for me and say Im not feeling very well but its nothing serious and shes not to worry.
Of course.
Now dont fuss.
Just rest and get better.
Tan-chun and Xiang-yun went on their way.
When they had gone, Nightingale settled Dai-yu down once more.
She left all the fetching and carrying to Snow-goose, and herself stayed constantly at Dai-yus side, trying her best not to betray her own distress by shedding any more tears.
Dai-yu closed her eyes and lay still for a while.
But sleep would not come.
The garden outside, which had always been such a haven of quiet and solitude, now seemed alive with sounds - the wind, insects buzzing, birds chattering, the fall of human footsteps, children crying faintly in the distance - all of which drifted in through the window and set her nerves on edge.
She told Nightingale to let down the curtains around her bed.
Presently Snowgoose appeared, carrying before her in both hands a bowl of Birds Nest Soup, which she gave to Nightingale, who whispered through the curtains Would you like some soup, Miss?
A faint yes was heard from inside, and handing the soup back to Snowgoose for the moment, Nightingale climbed up and helped Dai-yu into a comfortable sitting position.
Turning to take the bowl again, she first tasted the contents herself, then held it carefully to Dai-yus lips, while supporting her firmly round the shoulder with one arm.
Dai-yu opened her eyes feebly, took a couple of sips, then showed by a shake of her head that she could not manage any more.
Nightingale handed the bowl back to Snowgoose and gently settled her down again.
For a few minutes all was quiet and Dai-yu seemed more peaceful.
Then a whisper was heard from outside the window Is Nightingale in?
Snowgoose hurried out.
It was Aroma.
Come in, she whispered.
Hows Miss Lin?
asked Aroma.
They walked together towards the doorway and Aroma listened aghast as Snowgoose described what had happened that morning and the preceding night.
No wonder!
she exclaimed.
Kingfisher said something of the sort just now and had Master Bao so worried that he sent me straight round to find out how she is.
As they were talking, Nightingale lifted the portiere and beckoned to Aroma, who tiptoed into the room Is Miss Lin asleep?
Nightingale nodded.
Has Snowgoose told you?
she added.
Aroma nodded, then frowned and said This is dreadful!
Master Bao had me worried to death last night too!
What do you mean?
asked Nightingale.
Aroma explained When he went to sleep in the evening he seemed perfectly all right.
But in the middle of the night he started screaming his head off , first about a pain in his heart, and then about being stabbed by a knife - he was quite delirious, and didnt quieten down till after the dawn watch.
Wouldnt you have been scared?
Hes not allowed to go to school today, and the doctor has been sent for to prescribe something for him.
While they were talking, Dai-yu could be heard coughing again from inside the bed-curtains, and Nightingale hurried over to hold up the spittoon.
Dai-yu opened her eyes feebly Whos that youre talking to?
Its Aroma, Miss.
Shes come to ask how you are.
Aroma was already standing close by the bed.
Dai-yu told Nightingale to help her up and gestured to Aroma to sit down on the bed.
Aroma perched on the edge and said in her best bedside manner Are you sure you ought to be sitting up like this, Miss?
Why not?
replied Dai-yu.
Stop behaving as if its the end of the world, will you?
Who was that you mentioned just now, with a pain in the heart during the night?
Oh that wasnt real!
said Aroma.
That was just a nightmare Master Bao had.
Its very thoughtful of Aroma, thought Dai-yu to herself.
I know shes only trying to stop me from worrying.
But I must know!
She tried again, more insistently this time What sort of a nightmare?
What did he say?
Oh, he didnt say anything, lied Aroma.
Dai-yu nodded pensively and fell silent for a minute or two.
Then she sighed again and said Y6ure none of you to mention my illness to Master Bao.
It might affect his work and cause trouble with Sir Zheng.
Of course we wont, Miss, Aroma reassured her.
Now you lie down and rest.
Dai-yu nodded and asked Nightingale to settle her down again.
Aroma stayed a little longer by her bedside, said a few more comforting words and then left.
When she arrived back at Green Delights she reported that Dai-yu was feeling a little uncomfortable but that her condition was not a serious one, and thereby succeeded in setting Bao-yus mind at rest.
Tan-chun and Xiang-yun, on leaving the Naiads House, made their way together to Grandmother Jias apartment.
As they went, Tan-chun warned Xiang-yun When we see Grandmother, please be more careful what you say, will you?
Xiang-yun nodded I will.
Im afraid just now I was too shocked by Dais state to think what I was doing.
They arrived at Grandmother Jias and Tan-chun mentioned Dai-yus illness.
As she had predicted, the old lady was somewhat ruffled Dear dh dear!
How illness and misfortune seem to pick on those two!
Ever since Dai-yu was a little girl, its been one thing after another.
Now that shes grown up, it is time she learned to take better care of her health.
Shes too highly strung, thats her trouble.
No one dared say anything.
She turned to Faithful The doctors coming in the morning to see Bao-yu.
Tell them hes to look in at Miss Lins afterwards.
Yes, maam.
Faithful went out to tell the serving-women, who passed on the instructions.
Tan-chun and Xiang-yun stayed on at Grandmother Jias for dinner, and then returned to the Garden together.
Next day the doctor came to see Bao-yu.
He pronounced that a dietary imbalance had brought on a slight chill, which would soon be put right by a mild dispersant.
Lady Wang and Xi-feng sent the prescription over for Grandmother Jia to inspect, and at the same time sent someone ahead to the Naiads House to let them know the doctor was on his way.
Nightingale tucked Dai-yu up in her quilt and let down the bed-curtains, while Snowgoose quickly tidied the room.
Presently Jia Lian arrived with the doctor, announcing that as it was their regular practitioner there was no need for the maids to disappear.
An old serving-woman raised the portiere, Jia Lian ushered the doctor into Dai-yus room and the two men sat down.
Jia Lian began Nightingale dear, please tell Doctor Wang what you can about your mistresss illness.
Excuse me, interposed the doctor.
Please allow me to take her pulses and reach my own diagnosis first.
Then the young ladies may judge for themselves and correct me if anything I say conflicts with what they already know of her condition Nightingale arranged Dai-yu so that one of her hands was showing through the bed-curtains and resting on the diagnostic arm-rest, and gently slid back her bracelet and sleeve so as not to obstruct the pulse.
The doctor sat for a long while feeling the pulses first of one hand, then of the other.
When he had finished, he withdrew with Jia Lian to the outer room, where they both sat down.
The six pulses have an extremely taut quality, said the doctor, and indicate an advanced morbid obstruction.
As he spoke, Nightingale appeared in the doorway.
He turned towards her and said This condition should manifest itself in the following ways dizzy spells, loss of appetite, frequent dreams, and fitful sleeping in the early hours during the daytime a tendency to take offence for no reason and a generally nervous and apprehensive attitude towards other people.
Some might attribute all these to a peculiarity of temperament, but they would be mistaken.
They are organically related t6 a deficiency of Yin in the liver, with a concomitant diminution of cardiac vitality.
Does my diagnosis accord with what you have observed?
Nightingale nodded, and turning to Jia Lian said That is exactly how Miss Lin has been, sir.
Good, said Doctor Wang, rising from his chair.
We may proceed.
Jia Lian escorted him out of the Garden and across to his study, where his pages had already laid out the requisite pink prescription form in readiness.
Tea was served, then Doctor Wang took up the brush and wrote DIAGNOSIS The six pulses are slow and taut.
Prolonged morbid obstruction of the humoral flow.
Left distal pulse weak.
Diminution of cardiac vitality.
Left median pulse strong and irregular.
Hyperactivity of the liver Wood.
The hepatic humour, unable to disperse naturally, has encroached upwards on the spleen Earth, with consequent loss of appetite.
The extreme distemper has also caused a reversal of the elemental sequence, and the lungs Metal have certainly been damaged.
Since humour cannot circulate, it has congealed into phlegm.
Upsurge and expectoration of blood.
TREATMENT -384 1.
Sedation of liver.
2.
Restoration of lungs.
3.
Fortification of both heart and spleen.
The usual tonics are too violent in their action.
For the present, I suggest my own Black Ethereal Essence, to be taken with Elixir Pneumoferriferum.
Prescriptions for both humbly appended for esteemed approval.
The doctor wrote out a prescription of seven items and an adjuvant to go with it.
Jia Lian took the paper and glanced down the list.
I see you include Hares Ear in your prescription, he said.
Forgive me if I am wrong, but I thought that was ruled out in haematic eruptions?
You must be thinking, replied Doctor Wang with a knowledgeable smile, of its emetic properties, which, as is well known, contra-indicate this particular herb in cases of haemoptysis or epistaxis.
But allow me to inform you that in preparation with Turtles Blood as in my prescription, Hares Ear constitutes the only effective remedy we have for draining the humour of the Lesser Yang periphery of the gall-bladder.
You see, the judicious admixture of Turtles Blood has the remarkable effect of inhibiting the emetic properties of Hares Ear, while enabling it to restore the hepatic Yin and check the phlogistic disturbance.
In the words of the Ars Medicandi "ObstruFta obstruit, aperitque aperta."
And the - at first sight - paradoxical inclusion of Hares Ear is none other than the classic stratagem of the loyal counsellor befriending the usurper...
I see, said Jia Lian, nodding appreciatively.
Thank you for enlightening me, Doctor Wang.
The doctor continued I should like the young lady to take two doses of the decoction, and then we shall see whether to alter the prescription, or perhaps try a new one altogether.
I have another appointment, so I hope youll excuse me.
I shall call again another day.
As Jia Lian saw him out, he asked And what have you prescribed for my cousin?
Oh theres very little the matter with him.
Another dose of the dispersant I have prescribed should put him right.
With these words Doctor Wang stepped into his carriage.
Jia Lian dispatched a servant to purchase the various drugs needed and went in to inform Xi-feng of Dai-yus diagnosis.
They had not been talking long when Zhou Ruis wife arrived to consult Xi-feng about a few trivial details of domestic management.
After listening for a while, Jia Lian rose to leave.
Carry on, Mrs Zhou, I must be going.
With Jia Lian out of the room, and all remaining household business soon disposed of, Zhou Ruis wife was able to come to the real purpose of her visit.
Ive just come from Miss Lins, maam.
I dont like the look of it at all!
Theres not a spot of colour left in her cheeks, and to touch her shes nothing but skin and bones.
I tried asking her what the matter was, but she wouldnt speak, just sat there crying.
Before I left, Nightingale asked if you could advance them a couple of months allowance.
She said that with Miss Lin so ill, and her so proud anyway about not being beholden to a soul for anything, shed made bold to ask about it herself.
The medicine Miss Lin is taking goes on the general account of course, but she said they might be needing some extra money for incidental expenses.
I said Id mention it to you, maam.
Xi-feng lowered her head for a moment, then replied Oh very well, Ill sen4 her a few taels to be going on with.
Theres no need to tell Miss Lin though.
Im against advances on principle.
If one person starts well never hear the end of it.
Do you remember the scene Mrs Zhao and Miss Tan-chun had about this very question?
Besides, as you know, with so many expenses and so little coming in to pay for them, things are extremely tight at present.
After a pause, she continued Some people are under the illusion that its all caused by bad management on my part.
Some even have the nerve to suggest that I am lining the Wang nest at the Jia familys expense.
But you know better, my dear Mrs Zhou.
Youve seen far too much of what really goes on to pay any attention to such gossip.
Why I never heard such downright wicked lies in all my days, maam, said Zhou Ruis wife.
Bless my soul!
Where would this great rambling household be now, I should like to know, without you to keep everything running smoothly the way you do?
Id like to see any other lady try to take it on.
Why, a grown man with six arms and three heads would crumple under the strain of what you have to bear, for certain sure!
Theres no justice left in this world!
Suddenly she broke into a cackle of laughter.
Mind you, Mrs Lian, the things people will say!
The other day when Mr Zhou came home from town, he told me how people are all talking about us, trying to guess just how rich the family is.
Take this for example "The Jias have got rooms piled high with silver and gold!
Every stick of furniture in the house is inlaid with gold and studded with precious stones!"
Or sometimes they gossip about Her Grace "That daughter of theirs at Court," theyll say, "you can bet your last buckle shes managed to smuggle home half the Emperors things.
That time she went on that grand visitation, we saw it with our own eyes - cartloads of gold and silver she brought along with her, had the old home twinkling away like a fairy palace And when the family laid on that big do at the Temple which must have cost them a fortune, they didnt bat an eyelid!
Those lions outside the main gate are solid jade, and theyve a golden kylin in the garden - used to be two, till one was stolen!
Youd expect the ladies to be grand of course but in that set-up the maids are quite as genteel and ladylike as the ladies themselves!
They never do a hands turn, just lounge around drinking wine, playing music or perhaps a little chess, or doing a spot of leisurely painting now and then... Theres never any shortage of others to do their work.
All they need fuss about is which silk gown to slip into next.
If you could see the delicacies they eat or the clothes they wear, you wouldnt believe your eyes.
And the children!
So pampered, if they were to ask for a moonbeam someone would be off to fetch it down for the pretty little darlings to play with!"
Theres even a song about us -2507 Moneybags Ning And Rolling Rong Treat their cash Like piles of dung.
-2400 It seems so fine, But please beware!
If you look too... Mrs Zhou broke off in mid flow.
The last two lines of her song were in fact -2400 If yoli look too close, The cupboards bare!
She had been so carried away with her rendition that she only stopped in the nick of time.
Xi-feng could tell that the song carried a sting in its tail.
I know the sort of thing, she remarked casually.
But what could have given rise to that story about the golden kylin?
They must mean the little one old Abbot Zhang gave Master Bao at the Temple, replied Mrs Zhou.
He lost it and then several days later young Miss Shi found it for him.
A little thing like that is quite enough for those townfolk to spin one of their yarns around!
Theyre so ridiculous, arent they, Mrs Lian?
The only thing one can do is laugh.
I cant say I find it particularly funny, replied Xi-feng.
Its actually rather frightening.
The trouble is that behind our magnificent facade things are going from bad to worse.
Theres a popular saying Fattest pigs make choicest bacon Famous men are for the taking.
And our fame has been won under false pretences anyway.
Sometimes I worry a great deal where all this will lead to.
I understand your concern, maam, said Mrs Zhou.
But talk like that has been going round town for over a year, in the teahouses and wineshops, in every alley-way.
Its too late to stop it now, isnt it?
Xi-feng nodded.
She told Patience to weigh out a few taels of silver and gave them to Mrs Zhou.
Take these to Nightingale.
Say its just a little extra from me to help out.
If she needs to make any purchases out of common funds, she mustnt be afraid to say so.
No more talk of advances, though.
I know Nightingale is a bright girl and will understand what I mean.
Tell her that when Ive a free moment Ill be over to see Miss Lin.
Zhou Ruis wife took the money and departed to carry out these instructions.
-1094 No sooner had Jia Lian left xi-feng closeted with Zhou Ruis wife than he was accosted by a page-boy with an urgent summons from his father, and was obliged to go straight over to Jia Shes apartment.
Ive just got wind of the fact that someone at Court is ill, Jia She explained.
A senior consultant and two orderlies from the College of Physicians have been summoned to the palace, which indicates an illness in His Majestys immediate entourage.
Tell me, have we had any news of Her Grace the past few days?
None, replied Lian.
Go and ask your uncle, and check with Cousin Zhen, said Jia She.
See if they know any more about it.
If not, then send someone to inquire at the College.
We must find out what is going on.
Yes, father.
Jia Lian pursued both lines of inquiry simultaneously, dispatching one of his men to the College, while he him-self set off in haste to find Jia Zheng.
Where did you hear of this?
asked Jia Zheng, after listening to Lians account of the story.
From father, just a minute ago.
Well, you and Cousin Zhen had better go straight to the Palace and see what information you can glean there.
I have already sent someone to the College, replied Lian, to see if there is any news.
Ill go to the Ning side and fetch Cousin Zhen.
He had no need to.
go as far as Ning-guo House, however, since Cousin Zhen was already on his way over.
Yes, Id heard the same rumour myself, remarked Zhen, as Lian told him the story and the two of them walked together towards Jia Zhengs study.
I was just on my way to consult your father and Uncle Zheng about it.
By the time they arrived, Jia Zhengs attitude had become somewhat more philosophical.
If it is Her Grace, he advised them, we are sure to be informed sooner or later.
Meanwhile Jia She had joined the gathering.
At noon, the four of them were still waiting for Jia Lians messenger to return with news from the College, when one of the janitors came in to report the arrival of two Palace Eunuchs, with an Imperial Communication for Sir She and Sir Zheng.
Show them in, ordered Jia She, and he and his brother went out to greet them at the inner gate.
They knelt Manchu-style and did homage as Her Graces most Humble Servants, before ushering the Imperial delegation through the gateway and across the courtyard to the main reception-hall, where they begged them both to be seated.
One of the eunuchs rose to his feet and said Your daughter, Her Grace the Imperial Concubine, having been somewhat indisposed of late, it is His Majestys Pleasure that four ladies of her family should visit the Imperial Bedchamber tomorrow.
Each lady is to be permitted a single maidservant in attendance.
Male relatives are to proceed as far as the Inner Gate and present their cards.
They may not proceed any further but are to do homage an4 await any further instructions outside the gate.
Appointed time of arrival is nine a. m., departure to be completed by five p.m. Jia Zheng and Jia She and all the others present received this edict standing.
When it was concluded, they sat down once more and offered the eunuchs tea, after which the Imperial party took its leave.
The two senior brothers saw them out as far as the main gate, and then went in to report to Grandmother Jia.
Four?
queried the old lady.
Your two ladies and myself makes three.
Who can the fourth place be for?
There was a momentary pause.
No one dared make a suggestion, and after a moments reflection Grandmother J ia continued It must be meant for Feng.
She knows how to cope with any situation.
Well, you menfolk go off and make your arrangements.
Leaving promptly, Jia She and Jia Zheng gave instructions that apart from Lian and Rong whose job it would be to stay and look after the two mansions, a full turn-out of junior and senior clan-members was expected.
Next the servants were told to fit out four of the familys best green court-sedans, and a dozen carriages with blue canopies, and have them lined up before first light in the morning.
The servants hurried about their business, while the two Masters returned for a final consultation with Lady Jia.
We have to be there at nine oclock, and leave at five, Mother.
It seems advisable to retire rather earlier than usual tonight if we are to make a prompt start in the morning.
We need to allow ourselves ample time to prepare for court.
Very well, replied Grandmother Jia.
You can go now.
The brothers withdrew, leaving Grandmother Jia with her two daughters-in-law and Xi-feng.
TheY talked for a while about Yuan-chuns illness, and then after a little more desultory chat, retired for the night.
Next morning, before dawn, maids lit the lamps in every apartment, and the ladies sat down to their toilet.
At five oclock, when the ladies were ready and the gentlemen had put the finishing touches to their ceremonial outfits, Steward Lin and Lai Da came to the Inner Gate to report that the chairs and carriages were all ready as ordered and had been drawn up outside.
Jia She and Lady Xing arrived, and the party was complete.
After breakfast, which they all took together, Lady Jia led them out, leaning on Xi-fengs arm, and the household gathered round as the four ladies, each accompanied by a single maid, walked slowly out.
An advance party, consisting of Li Gui and one other senior boy, went on horseback to make preliminary arrangements at the Outer Gate of the Palace.
Three generations of Jias stepped into their carriages or mounted their horses.
The procession fell into line and, with retainers swelling the train, set off through the streets.
Jia Lian and Jia Rong remained behind to look after the two mansions.
The procession came to a halt under Westwall Gate, one of the outer gates of the Forbidden City, and shortly afterwards two eunuchs emerged to announce By Imperial Dispensation!
The ladies of the Jia family will now enter the Palace for their Personal Visitation.
The gentlemen may also proceed but may not enter the Palace precincts.
They will halt at the Inner Gate and do their homage from there.
There was a cry of Forward!
from the men on the gate, and a junior eunuch guided the four ladies chairs onward, while the gentlemen followed on foot at a stately pace, leaving their servants at the Outer Gate.
As they approached the Inner Gate, they could see several elderly eunuchs sitting there, who rose to their feet as the procession arrived and announced Gentlemen of the Jia family!
Halt here!
Jia She and Jia Zheng lined their men up outside the Gate in order of senioritv, while the ladies passed through in their chairs, halted under the Gate and dismounted.
A new escort of junior eunuchs now presented itself, and the Jia ladies, each leaning on a maids arm, continued on foot through the inner precincts of the Palace, until they saw before them the lavishly ornamented facade and brilliantly glazed roof-tiles of the Imperial Concubines Bedchamber.
Two young ladies-in-waiting stepped forward to inform them that the only formality required would be a curtsey.
Expressing their humble appreciation for this favour?, the visitors approached the bed and curtseyed in turn.
Yuanchun bade them be seated, which they did after a polite show of reluctance.
She spoke first to Grandmother Jia Have you been keeping well?
Leaning on her maid, the old lady rose shakily to her feet and replied Thanks to Your Graces beneficent aura I am still in good health.
Yuan-chun went on to speak to Lady Wang and Lady Xing, who both rose to answer in similar fashion.
Then she turned to Xi-feng How are things at home?
Xi-feng rose to her feet.
We manage to get by, Your Grace, she replied, and sat down.
I appreciate, said Yuan-chun, that it has not been easy for you these past few years.
Xi-feng was about to rise again and reply when a lady-in-waiting entered with a lot of official cards for Her Graces inspection.
As she recognized the familiar names, Yuan-chun felt a bitter pang of grief and tears began to flow down her cheeks.
The lady-in-waiting proferred a silk handkerchief, which she used to wipe away her tears, saying I am a litde better today, please tell them.
And bid them wait outside.
The Jia ladies were once more on their feet and expressing their gratitude.
Yuan-chuns eyes were still wet with tears.
Humble families are so much luckier than we are!
At least they can be together!
Lady Jia and the others were also on the brink of tears.
We beseech Your Grace not to be sad.
Your exalted blessings have already made themselves felt a thousandfold at home.
How is Bao-yu coming along?
asked Yuan-chun.
He is taking his studies more seriously now, replied Lady J ia.
His father has been extremely strict with him, and he is turning into quite a little scholar.
I am so glad to hear that.
Yuan-chun gave orders for their luncheon to be served in the outer reception-hall, and two ladies-in-waiting, assisted by four junior eunuchs, escorted them out.
The seating had been arranged in accordance with Jia family precedence, and the ladies sat down to an immaculately presented meal, details of which our narrative omits.
When luncheon was over, the four ladies returned to give thanks.
After further desultory chat, they saw that it was nearly five oclock, and anxious not to overstep their limit, took their leave.
Yuan-chun sent one of her ladiesin-waiting to accompany them as far as the Inner Gate, where the same four eunuchs were waiting to guide them out.
Lady Jia and company stepped into their chairs and were carried to the Outer Gate, where they were joined by Jia She and the menfolk.
The whole family returned in procession together.
The Visitation was repeated the following day and the day after, and as the arrangements made were identical to the last detail, we need not elaborate any further here.
-1094 Meanwhile, in the Xue household, things were going from bad to worse.
Ever since Xue Pans disappearance, Jin-gui had felt the lack of a sparring partner.
Caltrop Lily had moved out to live with Bao-chai, and the only person left within range was Moonbeam.
But since her promotion to the Masters bed, Moonbeam had acquired a new selfassurance, and Jin-gui soon observed that her stratagem in giving Moonbeam to Pan had misfired.
Her maid had indeed become her strongest rival.
Very well, she thought to herself one day, when she had been drinking heavily and was lying on her kang in a maudlin frame of mind, lets see what shes worth... A round or two with Moonbeam might be just the seltzer she needed.
Come on!
she taunted her.
Wheres our precious Lord and Master disappeared to, eh?
Wheres he hiding?
You do know, of course, dont you?
Ive not the least idea, replied Moonbeam coolly.
If he wouldnt tell you, Mrs Pan, no one else is likely to know.
Spare me the "Mrs", will you!
said Jin-gui with a malicious smile.
You and that Lily think you run the place, dont you?
I cant get near that little Miss Unmolestable, with all her friends in high places to take care of her - all right!
I wont stick my neck out in that direction!
But youre still my maid, I dont have to take cheek from you!
If youre so sure of yourself, why not get on with it and strangle me?
Then you and Lily can have the field to yourselves.
Im just in your way - go on, say it!
Moonbeam wasnt taking this lying down.
She looked J in-gui straight in the eye Mrs Pan, you have no right to accuse me like that!
When have I ever said a word against you?
Just because you cant do anything to her, theres no need to take it Out on me!
Youre just being a bully!
You know what the real trouble is, so why pretend you dont?
She burst into floods of tears and Jin-gui, who was now back in her element, clambered fuming down from the kang and went after her.
Moonbeam had learned a thing or two in the Xia household and fought back every inch of the way.
Jin-gui, ignoring her cries and protestations of innocence, attacked her with whatever she could lay hands on, and chairs, tables, cups and bowls were soon flying in every direction.
Aunt Xue happened to be in Bao-chais room and heard the terrible racket they were making.
Caltrop, she ordered without thinking, go over and see whats going on, will you?
Try and get them to quieten down.
You cant possibly send Caltrop, Bao-chai reminded her.
That would only make things worse.
Very well then, I shall go myself, declared Aunt Xue.
I dont think you should, Mama, advised Bao-chai.
We shall have to let them fight it out.
Theres nothing we can do, Im afraid.
What an intolerable state of affairs!
cried Aunt Xue, and leaning on one of her maids she set off in the direction of Jin-guis apartment.
Bao-chai followed reluctantly giving Caltrop strict tructions to stay behind.
As they approached Jin-guis apartment, they could hear the storm continuing unabated inside.
Whats the meaning of this?
cried Aunt Xue.
Look at the state things are in!
What a disgraceful way to behave!
Other people can hear what goes on, you know.
Arent you ashamed of what our relatives will think?
Arent you afraid of being made a laughing-stock?
Me a laughing-stock - thats rich!
Jin-gui yelled from inside.
Its this topsy-turvy family of yours thats a laughing-stock.Theres no respect, no proper order, not a single thing right in this godforsaken dump!
I was brought up differently, I can tell you!
In my home people knew their place.
Ive had as much from you family as I can take!
Sister-in-law pleaded Bao-chai, Mother only came because she heard the two of you fighting.
If she seemed to be blaming you, and didnt distinguish between you and Moonbeam, its only because she was upset.
Im sure she didnt mean anything by it.
Wouldnt it be better to explain whatever it is thats troubling you, and all of us try to get along peaceably together?
Poor Mother, were worrying her to death.
Yes, added Aunt Xue, before you start accusing me, kindly explain what the trouble is.
Youre such a saint, arent you!
said Jin-gui, addressing herself to Bao-chai.
Im sure a fine lady like you will marry a gentleman and live in a nice home - not like me, stranded here, trampled under foot, taken advantage of by all and sundry!
I might as well be a widow!
What a fool I am!
Dont judge me too harshly.
Im only.
a poor father-less creature thats never been taught any better.
And Im sure youd rather I spared you the sordid details of what goes on in here between my husband and his various womenfolk!
Only the thought of what her mother must be suffering enabled Bao-chai to contain her intense anger and shame at these words.
Sister-in-law, she pleaded, please dont say any more.
No one is judging you, no one is taking advantage of you - we never did with Lily and of course we dont with you.
At this Jin-gui started whacking the side of the kang and shrieked at the top of her voice Lily!
How could I ever compare with her?
Im not worth the ground she treads on, am I?
Shes been here longer than I have, she understands you and knows how to butter you up, and I dont, Im just a newcomer!
I know!
Theres no need to remind me of it!
But remember we cant all be Imperial Concubines youd better watch your step and make sure you dont end up like me, married to a great half-baked booby, left in the lurch for all the world to mock at!
Aunt Xue could contain herself no longer and rose to her feet I am not just defending her because she is my daughter she has tried her best to make peace with you but you seem quite determined to provoke her.
Whatever your trouble is, leave the poor girl alone!
If you have to punish someone, why not strangle me instead?
Please dont you get angry too, Mama, begged Baochai.
We only came to try and help.
If all were going to do is make things worse, I honestly think we should go.
Lets give her time to think it all over.
And dont you go causing any more trouble either!
This last remark was addressed to Moonbeam.
And so the two of them left and returned to their own apartment.
As they crossed the courtyard, they saw one of Lady Jias personal maids coming out to greet them with Caltrop.
Which way did you come?
asked Aunt Xue, adding I hope Lady Jia is well.
Very well, thank you maam, replied the maid.
Her Old Ladyship asked me t9 send you her best regards, to thank you for the lychees you sent the other day, and to congratulate Miss Qin on her engagement.
How long have you been here?
asked Bao-chai.
Quite a time, was her reply.
The colour rose in Aunt Xues cheeks when she realized how much the maid must have overheard.
Im afraid weve been having some dreadful scenes here recently, she said.
We must be a laughing-stock over on your side.
Oh maam, its nothing serious, said the maid.
Every family has its little troubles.
Thats as natural as plates clinking in a picnic-hamper.
Youre worrying too much.
She went inside with them and sat for a while before returning to Grandmother Jias.
A moment or two later, Bao-chai was busy giving Caltrop s 9 me instructions when suddenly Aunt Xue cried out Ai!
My chest!
She lay down on the kang, sending Bao-chai and Caltrop into a great state of panic.
But if you wish to know the outcome, you must turn to the next chapter.
CHAPTER 84 -587 Bao-yu is given an impromptu examination, and his betrothal is discussed for the first time Jia Huan visits a convulsive child, and old hostilities are resumed Bao-chai diagnosed her mothers sudden pain as an upward movement of humour from the liver into the chest, brought on by the recent scene with Jin-gui.
Without waiting for a doctor, she sent a servant out instantly to buy a few drams of Woody Vine Hooks, and made a strong brew for Aunt Xue to drink.
Then Caltrop helped administer a leg-pummelling and chest-massage.
The pain eased a little but Aunt Xues anger at Jin-guis outrageous behaviour, and her distress that Bao-chai should have had to submit to such humiliation, continued unabated.
Eventually, after another dose of daughterly reasoning, she fell asleep, and the humour was given a chance to subside.
Now please dont worry any more, Mama, pleaded Bao-chai, when she awoke.
In a day or two, when you feel up to it, why not go over and see Lady Jia and Aunt Wang?
It would do you a world of good.
Caltrop and I can take care of things here while youre away.
And Im sure there will be no more trouble from her.
Aunt Xue nodded.
Perhaps I will in a couple of days.
The news finally arrived that Yuan-chun had recovered, and everyone in the Jia family was greatly relieved.
A day or two later a party of eunuchs arrived from the palace with a consignment of presents and parcels of money.
They announced that it.
was Her Graces wish to reward the family for the diligence they had shown in visiting her during her Indisposition.
The eunuchs handed over the carefully labelled gifts one by one.
Jia She, Jia Zheng and the other menfolk went in to report to Grandmother Jia, and then all returned to express their thanks or the largesse.
When the eunuchs had drunk their tea and gone, there was a family gathering in Grandmother Jias apartment.
After a few minutes, while they were still chatting, an old serving-woman came in with a message The pages have reported that theres a visitor at the other side on important business for Sir She, milady.
With Grandmother Jias permission, Jia She left to see to his own affairs.
When he had gone, she suddenly thought of something and her face lit up with a smile.
Its so touching, she said, turning to Jia Zheng, the way Her Grace remembers Bao-yu!
The other day she made a point of asking about him.
Her solicitude, replied Jia Zheng with a sarcastic smile, is as generous as it is undeserved.
Increasing idleness is the only fruit that young tree will ever bear.
But I gave him a glowing report!
protested Grandmother Jia.
I said how well he was doing at his compositions.
I only wish it were the truth, said Jia Zheng with a crushing smile.
But you and your friends are always asking him to write verses and things for you - Im sure hes making progress, whatever you say.
Hes still young, be patient with him.
"A single spoonful never made a bouncing babe," as the saying goes.
Jia Zheng affected a dutiful smile.
Yes, Mother.
Which brings me, the old lady continued, to the other thing I want to talk about.
Now that Bao-yu is growing up, its time you and his mother started thinking seriously of choosing a nice wife for him.
Marriage is going to be a most important step in his life.
We neednt worry too much how, closely related to us she is, or how much money theyve got but we must be sure that shes sweet-natured, and a pretty sort of girl.
Thank you for reminding me, Mother, replied Jia Zheng rather stiffly.
But although of course I appreciate the importance of choosing a suitable bride, the first step, as I see it, must lie with Bao-yu himself.
Without a marked improvement on his part, any alliance we might hope to arrange would be doomed, and would certainly be a regrettable error for the young lady concerned.
His present shiftless attitude can only spell matrimonial disaster.
His response did not please Grandmother Jia.
- I know that its your decision!
she replied testily, and that Im an interfering old busybody!
But let me say just this even if I did rather spoil him when he was little, and even if he isnt quite as grown-up and responsible as you think he ought to be, I still think he has always been a nice, well-mannered, honest boy.
I think youre quite wrong to treat him as a neer-do-well, or as some sort of threat to a young girls happiness.
Hes not like that at all.
Oh perhaps I am prejudiced!
Hes preferable to young Huan, anyway.
Or would you like to correct me there as well?
Jia Zheng was by now feeling extremely uncomfortable.
You are of course by far the more experienced judge of character, Mother, he replied swiftly.
You may be right in thinking that fate has favoured him.
Perhaps it is my own - how shall I put it.
- impatience to detect a sense of purpose in the lad that has made of me a crabbed old father, and of Bao-yu the - eh - "crab-apple of my eye"?
The labour required on his part in the manufacture of this sparkling piece of verbal merriment did not quite nullify its object, viz.
the humouring of the old lady, and she smiled, whereupon the other ladies contributed a polite round of laughter.
Yes, said Grandmother Jia, and dont forget how much older you are.
Its that and your experience as a civil servant that have made you so mellow and wise.
She turned to Lady Xing and Lady Wang with a formidable glance and went on mischievously If you could have seen him when he was a boy!
He was quite impossible!
Far worse than Bao-yu!
It was only marriage that taught him a thing or two about life.
And now he wont stop complaining about poor Bao.
If anything, the boy is more mature for his age than his father was.
The ladies thought this assault on the bastion of Jia Zhengs dignity a great joke, and started laughing and calling Grandmother Jia a tease.
Then the junior maids came in and informed Faithful that lunch was ready to be served.
Speak up!
called out Grandmother Jia, her good humour quite restored.
Let me in on the secret!
Faithful smiled and passed on the message.
Well in that case, said Grandmother Jia, everyone can go home for lunch, except Feng and Cousin Zhens wife.
Id like them to stay and keep me company.
Jia Zheng, Lady Wang and Lady Xing waited until lunch was served and then, after a few more prods from the old lady, they left and went their separate ways.
On their return, Jia Zheng, in the course of conversation with Lady Wang, brought up the subject of his recent contretemps with Grandmother Jia How Mother idolizes that boy!
If only he can do well enough to scrape through his exam, then she will have something to feel proud of, a return for all her love, and he will have something to offer in the event of his marriage.
How true!
concurred Lady Wang.
Jia Zheng sent a maid out at once with the following orders for Li Gui Tell Bao-yu I wish to see him this evening.
Instead of coming to see me after school, he is to have his dinner first and come straight to my study afterwards.
There are some questions I wish to put to him.
Li Gui intercepted Bao-yu on his way home from school that afternoon, just as he was about to go in and pay his respects to his father.
Bao-.yu seemed thunderstruck by the ominous summons he went to see Grand-mother Jia, hurried back to Green Delights, ate a scanty meal, quickly rinsed his mouth and set off again for his fathers apartment.
Jia Zheng was waiting for him in the inner study.
Baoyu entered, made his bow and stood attentively to one side.
As you know, Jia Zheng began, I have been rather preoccupied recently and have not had an opportunity to question you on the progress of your studies.
Let me see, I recall that the Preceptor had set you a month for revision, after which time he was to give you your Maiden Theme.
That must have been at least two months ago.
You should have made a start by now, I think.
I have, sir, replied Bao-yu.
I have written three compositions.
I have been waiting for my work to improve before venturing to trouble you with any specimens of it.
Those were the Preceptors instructions, sir.
What were your first three Themes?
The first was from Analects, sir, Book Two, replied Bao-yu.
"Annos Quindecim natus The Sage Bent upon Learning in his Fifteenth Year."
The second was also from Analects, Book One "Obscuritatem Ae quo Animo Toleratam Lack of Acclaim Borne with Equanimity."
And the third was from Mencius, Book Three, Part Two "Tunc Accedunt Micium They Succumb to the Mician Heresy."
And have you kept your draft versions?
asked Jia Zheng.
I have fair copies of all three, sir, with the Preceptors emendations.
Are they at home, or in the schoolroom?
In the schoolroom, sir.
Then have someone go and fetch them at once.
I should like to see them.
Bao-yu sent an express message through to Tealeaf Go to the schoolroom in the drawer of my desk is a thin bamboo-paper copybook with Tasks written on the cover.
Bring it here, quickly!
In a short while Tealeaf returned with the book, which he handed to Bao-yu who presented it to his father.
Jia Zheng opened it at the first page and began reading the first of the eight legs of Bao-yus Maiden Task.
-1520 AMPLICATIO PRIMA -1520 THEMA ANNOS QUINDECIM NATUS CRUS PRIMUM APERTURA -1547 Sapiens perfectusque Vir a puero quidem se ad Philosophiam applicavit.
Jia Zheng glanced at the emendation and asked Bao-yu to construe his Apertura orally.
Bao-yu began The Sage, while still a boy... forsooth... was wholly Bent upon Learning.
Jia Zheng looked up.
Your use of puer betrays an inadequate comprehension of the Theme.
I see the Preceptor has substituted the annos quindecim natus of the original.
Good.
Pueritia, ou see, covers the whole span of boyhood up to and including the age of sixteen, whereas here the Sage is alluding to specific milestones in his own life.
We must echo the numbers he uses, if we are to preserve the correct sequence of his moral and intellectual development.
Jia Zheng continued with the second leg.
-1520 CRUS SECUNDUM CONTINUATIO -1547 Tantam autem Applicationem Rarissimam esse confiteor.
And what, he asked with a shake of the head, do you mean by this?
That the Sages application, replied Bao-yu, is a thing ordinary mortals scarcely ever achieve.
Childish nonsense, my boy!
It only shows what a creature of indolence you are.
I am glad to see that the Preceptor has rewritten the entire Continuatio for you.
Kindly construe, from "omnibus enim".
Bao-yu obliged For many are those who aspire to Learning.
But how few alas possess the application necessary for the fulfilment of this Aspiration.
Does not the Sages achievement testify to the strength of his Moral Convictions in his Fifteenth Year?
I thank you.
I trust you understand the emendation?
Yes sir.
Jia Zheng passed on to the second Theme It may be helpful at this point to provide some idea of the pedagogic principles that guided Dai-ru in his selection of Themes for his young pupil.
His plan was roughly speaking as followsFirst Theme - reiterate need for Youthful Zeal.
Second Theme - clarify point raised during second days oral exegesis, viz.
Worldly Success versus Moral Achievement.
Third Theme - Orthodoxy versus Heresy.
Lack of Acclaim Borne with Equanimity.
Jia Zheng read the Preceptors emended version, translating to himself as he went along If a man is able to view Worldly Acclaim with Equanimity, nothing can affect his Pleasure and Delight.
He screwed up his eyes to decipher Bao-yus original Whats all this?
"Equanimity is the Essence of Scholarship."
You have completely failed to treat the first element in your Theme, Obscuritas, and have embarked prematurely on a discussion of Nobilitas which should be kept for a later section.
Your Preceptors emendation shows a correct Dispositio.
I hope you notice the way in which he uses Amoenitatem Dclectationemque Animi to allude to the passage in Analects immediately preceding the rubric?
Do you recall?
Nonne quidem amoenum?
Nonne quidem delectabile?
You must study this sort of thing carefully.
Yes sir.
Jia Zheng went on to read Bao-yus Continuatio.
There was another reference here to the Essence of Scholarship, which had once again been emended by the Preceptor to Pleasure and Delight.
The same fault as in your Apertura, commented Jia Zheng.
The emendation is tolerable.
Not particularly stylish, but clear.
He moved on to the third and last Theme The Mician Heresy.
As he recollected the provenance of the quotation, he looked up in surprise and after a moments thought asked Bao-yu Have you reached this far in Mencius?
Yes sir, Bao-yu hastened to assure him.
The Preceptor decided to go through Mencius with me first, as it is the easiest of the Four Books.
We finished the whole of Mencius three days ago, and now we are doing Analects Part One.
Jia Zheng continued reading.
By the time Bao-yu had come to write this third composition, he had more or less mastered the ignoble art of the Octopartite, and had learned to handle the necessary rhetorical constructions with a certain glib dexterity.
Jia Zheng studied the first two legs, and observed that in this case the Preceptor had paid the young essayist the compliment of a total suspension of the corrective brush.
The Apertura lamented the fact that those who rejected the Hedonist Doctrine of Yanxius Yanxianam ilam Voluptatis Doctrinam were still unable to find the True Path of Confucian Orthodoxy Orthodoxiae Confucianae Veram Viam, but were instead blindly drawn into the fold of that prevalent and deplorable Mician Heresy of Universal Love Micianam illam Caritatis Universae Heterodoxiam.
Nicely put, Jia Zheng commented, and continued reading.
A little further on he paused.
Tell me, he asked, evidently impressed by what he read, did you write this unaided?
Yes sir.
He nodded pensively.
Nothing brilliant about it of course, but for a first attempt not at all bad, I must say.
Ah, Mencius!
I recall how during my tour of duty as an examiner I had occasion to set as one of my Themes "Soi Nobilitatis Sapientiaeque Alumni suntpotis".
All the first-degree candidates, I regret to say, had their heads crammed full of the standard compositions on the Theme, and not a single one of them could come up with anything original.
All plagiarisms.
Are you familiar with the quotation?
-768 Yes sir.
Mencius, Book One, Part Two "Only Good Breeding and a Heritage of Culture have the power to sustain a man in the face of Adversity" Good, replied Jia Zheng.
I should like you to show me what you can do.
Something of your own, please, not another feat of memorization.
An Apertura will do.
-768 Bao-yu lowered his head in concentration and began racking his brains for a pithy opening phrase, while Jia Zheng stood thoughtfully in the doorway, hands clasped behind his back.
Just at that moment, a diminutive pageboy went flashing past.
As he caught sight of the Master in the doorway, he froze, his body slightly inclined, his arms hanging limp at his side.
What is your errand, boy?
asked Jia Zheng brusquely.
Please, sir, Mrs Xue has just arrived at Her Old Ladyships and Mrs Lian has sent me with special instructions to the kitchen, sir, jabbered the unfortunate boy.
Jia Zheng made no reply, and he fled.
-768 Now Bao-yu assumed that if Aunt Xue had come over for a visit, then Bao-chai whom he had greatly missed since her departure from the Garden was sure to have come with her.
His excitement at the thought of seeing her again spurred him on.
Sir, he ventured, I have a draft Apertura for your approval.
Go ahead.
Bao-yu intoned his opening sentence Non omnes Sapientiae Alumni sunt, neque possunt carere Stabili Patrimonjo.
Jia Zheng nodded.
Thank you.
That will do for today.
In future, please bear in mind these two Golden Rules for Composition.
Before raising your brush, always be certain of the sequence of your Dispositio and the clarity of your Inventio.
Tell me, was your grandmother aware that I sent for you?
Yes sir.
Off you go then.
You had better go over and see her now.
Sir!
Bao-yu manoeuvred his way backwards out of the study and set off along the covered way, imitating to perfection the scholars leisurely gait.
As soon as he reached the moon-gate, however, and had placed its large protective screen between himself and the study, he broke into a run and raced ahead towards Grandmother Jias apartment.
Careful you dont trip!
Tealeaf shouted after him.
The Masters coming.
Bao-yu was much too excited to pay any attention.
As he neared the entrance to Grandmother Jias apartment, he could hear the sounds of conversation and laughter coming from within.
He could make out, among others, the voices of Lady Wang, Xi-feng and Tan-chun.
When the maids saw him coming, they quickly drew aside the portiere and whispered in his ear as he passed through Mrs Xue is here, you know.
Bao-yu hurried in to greet his aunt, and then paid his respects to Grandmother Jia.
He gave her a full account of his interview with Jia Zheng, and her face radiated pride and delight.
Wheres Cousin Chai?
he asked, turning to the assembled company.
She couldnt come with me today, said Aunt Xue, with a rather unconvincing smile.
She and Caltrop have a lot of sewing to catch up on at home.
Bao-yu was very disappointed, and only a sense of duty kept him from leaving at once.
Dinner was served and Grandmother Jia and Aunt Xue sat up at the table of honour, while Tan-chun and the others took their places down below.
Where will Bao-yu be sitting?
asked Aunt Xue.
Up here with me, said Grandmother Jia with a smile.
-768 Li Gui told me to have my dinner before seeing Father, Bao-yu hastily informed her.
So I asked for a quick meal when I got in from school.
I had a dish of something and a bowl of rice steeped in tea.
You all go ahead, please.
In that case, said Grandmother Jia, Feng can come and sit with us.
Your mother says it 5 one of her vegetarian days today, so she can eat alone.
Thats right, said Lady Wang to Xi-feng.
You eat with them.
Dont wait for me.
I shall be having my vegetables at home.
Xi-feng politely took her seat and the maids put out the wine cups and chopsticks.
Then Xi-feng went round with the wine kettle, and, when everyones cup was filled, returned to her seat.
-768 After they had all had a drink of wine, Grandmother Jia asked Aunt Xue Didnt I hear you say Caltrop just then?
Thats funny.
One of my maids was talking only the other day about someone called Lily, and I couldnt for the life of me think who she meant.
When I asked her, she told me it was Caltrops new name.
Do tell me what she wants to go and change her name for?
The colour rose in Aunt Xues cheeks and she sighed Please dont ever mention it again.
Since the day Pan married that wretched wife we havent had a moments peace.
The bickering, the nastiness, its been too awful.
Ive tried talking to her several times, but she is quite impervious to reason.
And I cant bear quarrelling with them all the time, so I just end up trying to turn a blind eye.
Yes, she decided to change Caltrops name because she said she didnt like it.
Oh well, said Grandmother Jia, whats in a name when alls said and done?"
I shall die for shame!
cried Aunt Xue.
Im sure all of you know the real reason.
It wasnt the name.
It was the fact that Ba6-chai had thought of it in the first place.
Thats what she really objected to.
What do you mean?
asked Grandmother Jia.
Aunt Xue had been dabbing at her eyes all the while with her handkerchief.
She heaved another deep sigh before she was able to continue.
Surely you must know?
Every single thing my daughter-in-law does is aimed at provoking Bao-chai.
She wont leave her alone.
The other day, when you sent someone round to see me, we were in the middle of one of our scenes!
That must have been the day I heard you had a little bit of a liver upset, said Grandmother Jia tactfully.
I was going to send someone over to see how you were, but then I heard that you were feeling better so I thought no more about it.
You should take my advice, dear, and stop worrying.
Theyre a newly married couple and you must give them time to settle down.
And youre so lucky to have Chai.
She is such a gentle, unflappable girl.
She may be young, but my word, she has the aplomb of someone twice her age!
When my maid came back and told us what had happened that day and the way she coped with it, we were all singing her praises.
Such a wonderful disposition!
Shes a girl in a million.
When she gets married, if you dont mind my saying so, her mother-in-law will take her to her bosom and the whole household will be devoted to her, I am certain of it.
Earlier, Bao-yu had found the general tenor of the conversation rather distasteful, and was just saying something about having to leave when his grandmother embarked upon this eulogy of Bao-chai, and he found himself listening with rapt attention.
Whats the use?
said Aunt Xue.
Whatever her qualities, she is still only a daughter.
With a son as hopeless -as Pan, I can have no peace I never stop worrying in case he has gone off to one of his haunts, had too much to drink again and landed himself in another brawl.
In fact the only time I ever feel at all reassured is when hes over here with his cousins Zhen and Lian.
At this, Bao-yu chirped up Theres really nothing to fear, Auntie.
I can vouch for Cousin Pans friends.
They are all serious businessmen and far too respectable to get into trouble.
In that case, said Aunt Xue with a smile, perhaps I shouldnt worry.
Supper was over by now, and Bao-yu excused himself, saying he still had some preparation to do that evening.
The maids were serving tea, when Amber came into the room and whispered something in Grandmother Jias ear.
She turned to Xi-feng Youd better go quickly, my dear.
Its Qiao-jie.
Xi-feng had no idea what the matter could be and the others were as puzzled as she was.
Patience sent one of the younger maids round with a message for you, Mrs Lian, explained Amber, crossing over to where Xi-feng sat.
Miss Qiao-jie does not seem at all well and would you please go over as soon as possible.
Youd better go straight away, said Grandmother Jia.
You dont have to stand on ceremony for your Aunt Xue.
Yes Grannie, said Xi-feng, and she took her leave of Aunt Xue.
As she was on her way out she heard Lady Wang say You go ahead.
Ill be along shortly.
Tell the maids to be quiet and not to make a lot of fuss.
Little ones get so easily unsettled.
And make sure that kitten and puppy are kept well out of the way.
Poor child!
I suppose little upsets are to be expected in a family as greatly blessed as ours.
Xi-feng promised Lady Wang to carry out her instructions and left with her maid.
After her departure, Aunt Xue went on to inquire after Dai-yus health.
Miss Lin is all right, replied Grandmother Jia.
She just takes everything too seriously.
Thats what is undermining her health, if you ask me.
She may ie as clever as Bao-chai, but she lacks your daughters easy way with people.
Chai is so responsible and considerate.
The conversation continued a little longer, and then Aunt Xue said she must be going.
Ill leave you in peace now.
Id better see how Chai and Caltrop are getting on at home.
Ill go along with Aunt Wang and have a look at Qiao-jie on my way.
What a good idea, said Grandmother Jia.
With your experience you will be able to give them some helpful advice, Im sure.
Aunt Xue took her leave and went with Aunt Wang to Xi-fengs apartment.
To return to Jia Zheng he had been pleasantly surprised by Bao-yus performance that evening, and mentioned it later in the course of conversation with his literary friends in the outer study.
A newcomer among them, an excellent Go-player by the name of Wang Er-tiao also called Go-between Wang, remarked I think we have all noticed a marked progress in Master Bao, sir.
He is becoming quite a cultured young fellow.
I hardly think so, replied Jia Zheng.
His powers of comprehension have improved, I grant you.
But culture?
No, he has a long way to go yet.
Come come, Sir Zheng!
said Zhan Guang.
You are being too modest.
Friend Wangs opinion is one we all share.
Master Bao will surely go far.
Im afraid you are allowing your partiality for the boy to sway your judgement, was their patrons reply, but he was visibly pleased.
-384 With your leave, sir, continued Wang, there is another matter in this connection that I should like to broach if I may.
-694 By all means.
-384 Wang gave a smarmy smile.
An acquaintance of mine, Excellency Zhang, who used to be Taotai of the Nanshao Circuit, has a daughter, sir, a most attractive, industrious and generally commendable child, so I am told, and as yet unbetrothed.. Excellency Zhang has no sons of his own and is, I should add, a man of enormous wealth.
He is most particular in this matter, and stipulates that his son-in-law must come from an eminent and prosperous family, and must be a young man of distinguished character himself.
In the two months I have been here, sir, I have become aware of the moral and intellectual calibre of young Master Bao, the promise of great things to come .
If the proposal were known to come from a family as illustrious as your own, sir, it would I am sure need but a single visit from me for the betrothal to be as good as settled.
It is true that Bao-yu has reached a marriageable age, replied Jia Zheng.
Lady Jia has reminded me of it more than once.
But who is this Excellency Zhang?
Im afraid I dont know him.
-576 Allow me to clarify, if I may, ventured Zhan.
I am acquainted with the Zhang family friend Wang refers to.
They are related to Sir Shes family, in point of fact, and it should be easy enough to elicit more information trom them.
Really?
said Jia Zheng thoughtfully..
I cant say I have ever heard the name of any such relation mentioned at my brothers.
Well, strictly speaking, sir, explained Zhan, they are related by marriage to Lady Xings elder brother.
So, thats where the relationship lies, thought Jia Zheng.
- A little later he went in, with the intention of talking this new proposal over with Lady Wang and asking her to sound out Lady Xing about the Zhang family.
He found, however, that his wife was out, visiting Qiao-jie with Aunt Xue.
At lighting-up time, when Aunt Xue went home and Lady Wang returned, Jia Zheng discussed the proposal with her.
He also asked after Qiao-jie.
We think its convulsions, she said.
Nothing serious, I hope?
Its too early to tell.
The fits have still not passed.
Jia Zheng sighed but said no more, and they retired for the night.
-827 Next day, when Lady Xing came to pay her morning respects to Grandmother Jia, Lady Wang mentioned the marriage proposal and took the opportunity of asking Lady Xing about the Zhang family.
Yes, they are relations of ours, divulged Lady Xing.
But weve had no contact with them for years now, so Ive no notion what this Miss Zhang is like.
Now that you mention it, Yings mother-in-law, Mrs Sun, sent one of her women to call on me a day or two ago, and she men-tioned the Zhangs.
She told me they had a daighter and had asked the Suns to look out for a suitable husband for her.
Apparently she is an only child and rather delicate.
She has had a little education and sounds a quiet, shy sort of girl, used to staying at home.
As she is an only child, her father wont contemplate her leaving home.
He is afraid the severity of a mother-in-law might be too much of a strain for her and insists on her husband coming to live with them and taking on his share of their family responsibilities.
Out of the question!
exclaimed Grandmother Jia.
Bao-yu is difficult enough for us to look after as it is.
Can you imagine sending him out to be the head of some strange family?
You are absolutely right of course, said Lady Xing.
Grandmother Jia turned to Lady Wang.
Be sure to tell Zheng when you go home that I say this match is definitely off.
Yes Mother.
Tell me, the old lady continued, how was Qiao-jie when you went to see her yesterday?
Patience gave me the impression earlier on that it was something serious.
I should like to go and see her myself.
The two ladies thanked Grandmother Jia for the kind thought, but begged her not to trouble herself for Qiao-jies sake .
Its not only for her sake.
Its the exercise.
Id like to stretch my legs a bit, said the old lady.
You two have your lunch and then we can all go over together.
Lady Wang and Lady Xing went home for lunch.
Afterwards they collected Grandmother Jia and escorted her to Xi-fengs apartment.
Xi-feng greeted them at the door and conducted them inside.
How is she?
asked Grandmother Jia.
It seems to be an attack of convulsions, Xi-feng informed her.
Hadnt you better call the doctor straight away?
We already have, Grannie dear.
Grandmother Jia went in with Lady Wang and Lady Xing and found Qiao-jie in the arms of her nurse, wrapped in a little padded quilt of pink damask-silk, her face deathly white, her eyebrows and nostrils quivering slightly.After a brief inspection, they withdrew to the outer room, and sat down to talk.
Presently a junior maid from Lady Wangs apartment came in with a message for Xi-feng -768 The Master has sent to inquire how Qiao-jie is, Mrs Lian.
Tell him we have sent for the doctor, replied Xi-feng, and that I will report as soon as he has made out his prescription.
The maids arrival reminded Grandmother Jia of the recently aired marriage proposal.
She turned to Lady Wang You ought to go and tell Zheng straight away about that business, dear.
If we put a stop to it now, before someone talks to the Zhang family, we will save ourselves the trouble of having to say no to them later.
She turned to Lady Xing.
Why is it you havent seen much of the Zhangs lately, anyway?
As a matter of fact, replied Lady Xing, theyre very mean and not the right sort of family for us at all.
It would have been a needless humiliation for Bao-yu.
That must be Bao-yus betrothal you are talking about, Mother?
said Xi-feng, who had already formed a shrewd idea of what was going on.
Why yes, we are actually, said Lady Xing.
Grandmother Jia told Xi-feng about the Zhang proposal.
Xi-feng laughed I hope youll excuse me, Grannie, Mother, Auntie Wang, for speaking out of turn, but what need is there to go looking for a wife for Bao-yu, when we have a "predestined affinity" here before our very eyes?
What do you mean?
asked Grandmother Jia, intrigued.
Surely, Grannie, you cant have forgotten Baos Magic Jade and Chais Golden Locket?
Grandmother Jia laughed.
Of course!
But why on earth didnt you mention it while Aunt Xue was here yesterday?
It would hardly have been right for me to speak up in the presence of my elders and betters, replied Xi-feng.
Besides, Aunt Xue had come on a social call and it would have been out of place.
If we are to do the thing properly, Mother and Aunt Wang must go over and ask Aunt Xue formally for Bao-chais hand.
They all laughed at her.
Bless you, Fengie, said Grandmother Jia.
I really must be going gaga.
113 Meanwhile the doctor was announced and Grandmother Jia took a seat in the outer room, while the two ladies discreetly withdrew.
The doctor entered with Jia Lian and paid his respects to Grandmother Jia before proceeding into Qiao-jies room.
When he returned, he bowed to Grandmother Jia and pronounced his diagnosis.
The little girl is suffering from a convulsive attack complicated by an internal fever.
She must first take a single dose of a combined anti-spasmodic and expectorant, and then I want you to give her a course of Four Prodigies Powders.
It is quite a serious attack.
You will notice Cows Bezoar-stone in my prescription.
I should mention that a lot of the Bezoars sold by the apothecaries nowadays are not genuine.
It is important that you procure the real thing.
Grandmother Jia thanked him for coming, and the doctor went out with Jia Lian, wrote out his prescription and left.
Theres always Ginseng in the house, said Xi-feng, but I dont think weve any Bezoar.
Well have to buy some and make sure it 5 genuine.
Wait until Ive sent someone round to my sisters, said Lady Wang.
I know Pan has often done business with merchants from overseas.
They might easily have some real Bezoar.
As she was speaking, several of the girls arrived to see Qiao-jie.
They stayed for a short while, and then left with Grandmother Jia and the others.
Qiao-jies expectorant was now prepared and poured down her throat.
There was a retching sound and up it came, medicine, phlegm and all, much to Xi-fengs relief.
One of Lady Wangs junior maids arrived with a little red paper packet.
We found some Bezoar, maam.
Her Ladyship says youre to weigh Out the correct amount and take as much as you need.
Xi-feng asked the maid to convey her thanks to Lady Wang, took the package and told Patience to mix Pulverized Pearl, Baros Camphor and Cinnabar in the prescribed proportions and bring them to the boil.
She herself weighed out the correct amount of powdered Bezoar on the scales and added it to the mixture.
She waited for Qiao-jie to wake again before administering the potion.
Who should lift the door-blind and walk in at this very moment but Jia Huan.
Hows Qiao-jie, Cousin Feng?
Mother sent me to inquire.
The sight of either Aunt Zhao or her son invariably made.Xi-fengs hackles rise.
Shes a little better, she replied in rather a caustic tone.
When you go back, please tell your mother Im sorry to have caused her so much trouble.
Jia Huan mumbled something about going, but started nosing round the room.
I say, he said after a while.
I heard you had some of that Bezoar stuff in here.
Ive never seen any before.
Lets have a look.
Qiao-jie is only just on the mend, said Xi-feng, so do you mind not crashing around in here?
The Bezoar has all been used for her potion anyway.
Hearing this, Jia Huan reached out clumsily for the chafing-skillet to have a look.
He lost his grip, and there was a great hiss as the skillet tipped over and the precious medicine spilled into the brazier, half extinguishing the fire.
Jia Huan could see he was in for trouble and beat a hasty retreat.
Xi-feng was so furious she seemed to emit sparks of rage.
You vile harpys brat!
she screamed after him.
Bane of my life!
What can I have done in a past life to deserve such spite?
Your mother tried to do me in, now its Qiao-jies turn!
How many generations must this feud go on for?
Patience had her share of the blame too, for not being more careful.
While Xi-feng was in full spate, a maid came in to fetch Jia Huan home.
Go and tell Mrs Zhao, ordered Xi-feng, that she is putting herself to too much trouble.
Qiao-jie is as good as dead already, so she neednt go to such lengths!
The maid, nonplussed by Xi-fengs remarks, went over to Patience, who was busy mixing up another dose of medicine, and asked her in a whisper Whats made Mrs Lian so angry?
Patience told her about Jia Huans disastrous episode.
No wonder he ran away and didnt dare come home!
exclaimed the maid.
Goodness knows how that Huan will turn out!
Can I help you tidy up, Patience?
Dont worry.
Luckily we had a little Bezoar left and its all mixed now, so you might as well go.
Ill certainly tell Mrs Zhao the minute I get back.
Perhaps that will stop her bragging about him all the time.
The maid returned and, true to her word, gave Aunt Zhao a detailed account of Jia Huans debacle.
Bring him to me!
cried Aunt Zhao in an agitated tone.
After a brief search, the maid discovered him skulking in the adjoining room, and Aunt Zhao immediately began discharging a volley of abuse in his direction You miserable little runt!
What did you have to go and get yourself into trouble for, spilling their medicine all over the place?
I said go and ask how she was, not go barging in!
But you had to, didnt you?
And when you were in, you had to stay and goad the dragon on.
You must have known you were playing with fire!
You wait till I tell your father about this!
Hell give you the thrashing you deserve!
Even stronger words had already been let loose in reply from the other room.
But to hear for yourself, please turn to the next chapter.
CHAPTER 85 It is announced that Jia Zheng has been promoted to the rank of Permanent Secretary And it is discovered that Xue Pan has once more brought upon himself the threat of exile All I did was knock a skillet over and spill a bit of medicine!
yelled Jia Huan before his mother could finish.
That measly little brat of hers is still alive, isnt she?
Anyone would think Id done her in, the way you two are going on at me about it, slandering me and dragging my name in the mud!
One day I really will finish her off!
That would teach you all a lesson!
Youd better tell them to look out!
Aunt Zhao came hurtling in and clapped a hand over his mouth.
Youre asking for it, saying such dreadful things!
Theyll have your neck first, my boy, see if they dont!
They kept it up like this for some time.
Jia Huan slipped in Xi-fengs barbed little message, which made his mother more implacable than ever.
There was now no question of her sending anyone over to Xi-fengs with an apology, and although Qiao-jie made a complete recovery a few days later, the episode had deepened the feud between the two sections of the family.
One day Steward Lin came in to report to Jia Zheng that it was the Prince of Bei-jings birthday.
Are there any special instructions, sir?
Send whatever we usually send, replied Jia Zheng.
Report to Sir She first, before delivering the presents.
Very good sir, said Lin, and went to make the necessary arrangements.
A little later, Jia She arrived himself, to discuss with his brother the details of the visit.
They decided to take Cousin Zhen, Jia Lian and Bao-yu along with them.
If for the four older men it was merely another social engagement, for Ba6-yu it was an opportunity long awaited.
He had been a fervent admirer of the Prince 5 handsome.
looks and graceful bearing ever since their memorable first encounter at the roadside halt.
He changed eagerly into his smartest clothes and went to join the others.
On arrival at the Palace, Jia She and Jia Zheng presented their cards and before long a Eunuch Chamberlain of the Household emerged, fingering his beads, and greeted them with a little peal of falsetto laughter I hope you are both keeping well?
They reciprocated the inquiry and the three younger Jias came forward to make their greeting.
His Imperial Highness will be pleased to receive you now.
The eunuch led the five of them in, through two further gateways and past a large state-room, to the Inner Gate of the Princes personal residence Here they halted once more, while the eunuch went in to announce their arrival, leaving them to be entertained by the various junior eunuchs in attendance at the gate.
After a brief interval their original escort returned.
This way, please.
They all stepped solemnly forward again.
The Prince, dressed in full robe of state, had paid them the compliment of coming out to receive them in one of the covered walks by the entrance to the main hall.
The two brothers advanced first and did homage, followed in order of seniority by Cousin Zhen, Jia Lian and Bao-yu.
The Prince took Bao-yu by the hand.
It has been a long while since we last met.
You have been much in my thoughts.
He smiled Tell me, how fares it with that stone of yours?
Bao-yu dropped to a half-kneeling position and with head bowed replied Your Highnesss beneficent aura has preserved us from misfortune.
There is nothing very special to eat today, continued the Prince pleasantly.
But at least we shall be able to spend a little time talking together.
Eunuchs lifted the portiere, and the Prince made a charming gesture of yielding the pas to his guests before leading the way in.
The Jias followed, walking with a deferential stoop, and once inside Jia She was the first to offer his birthday felicitations.
These the Prince accepted modestly, while Jia She sank to his knees.
The others followed suit.
Once these formalities a detailed description of which our narrative omits were over, the Jias began discreetly to take their leave.
The Prince turned to his eunuchs and gave instructions that they were to be escorted to the reception which was being given for his own family and a few other distinguished guests and that they were to be attended to with the utmost care.
He asked Bao-yu to stay behind for a chat.
Do sit down, he began, when the others had left.
Baoyu made his kotow of thanks for this honour, and perching delicately on a covered porcelain tabouret near the door, talked for a while of his studies and compositions and other things.
The Prince seemed fonder than ever of his young protg, and offered him some tea - a still greater honour.
He went on to say Excellency Governor Wu was in town yesterday for an audience with His Majesty.
He told me that your father, in his last posting as Commissioner of Education, showed the most scrupulous impartiality and gained the respect of all the candidates he examined.
At the audience, when H.M. inquired, Wu gave your father the highest recommendation.
Clearly a favourable omen... You have shown us a great favour, Your Highness, and Governor Wu has done us a great kindess.
You have shown us a great favour, Your Highness, and Governor Wu has done us a great kindness.
As he was speaking, a junior eunuch returned from the reception in the front state-room to convey a message of thanks from the various Lords and Gentlemen for their banquet, and to present their cards of appreciation and midday greeting to the Prince, who glanced through them and handed them back with a gracious smile and a brief word of acknowledgement.
And, if it please Your Highness, the eunuch continued, the repast you ordered specially for Master Jia Bao-yu is now ready.
The Prince gave him a few further words of instruction, and the eunuch led Bao-yu out to an exquisitely appointed suite of rooms facing a small courtyard, where he ordered another attendant to wait upon him during the meal.
Afterwards, Bao-yu returned to give thanks and the Prince continued chatting in the same complimentary vein.
Suddenly he laughed When I first saw that tone of yours, I was so taken with it, you know, that on my return I gave my jade-workers a description of it and asked them to make me one like it.
I am so glad you have come today.
I can give it to you to take home.
It might amuse you to keep it.
One of the junior eunuchs was ordered to bring the jade in, and the Prince.
himself handed it to Bao-yu, who received it humbly in both hands, gave thanks and then took his leave.
The Prince told two more junior eunuchs to accompany him out, he rejoined the other members of the family, and they all returned home.
On arrival, Jia She paid his respects to Grandmother Jia and left for his own apartment.
J ia Zheng and the others also paid their respects and gave her a full account of the reception.
Bao-yu communicated to his father the news he had received about Governor Wus sponsorial activities.
Governor Wu, commented Jia Zheng drily is an old friend, and a man after my own heart.
He is also, I might add, a statesman of the highest integrity.
After a little more chat, Grandmother Jia gave permission for them all to disperse.
J ia Zheng took his leave, an was followed by Cousin Zhen, Jia Lian and Bao-yu as far as the door.
With a parting injunction to the three of them to stay and keep Grandmother Jia company a little longer, Jia Zheng returned to his apartment.
He had not been there long when a maid came in to announce that Steward Lin was waiting outside with something to report.
She also handed him a red visiting card with Governor Wus name on it.
Jia Zheng told her to admit Lin, and went out to speak to him on the verandah.
Excellency Governor Wu called to see you today, sir, reported Lin.
I informed him that you were out.
And another thing, sir I have heard that a Permanent Secretarys position has become vacant in the Ministry of Works.
According to various people, including officials in the Ministry, you are to be given the post as confirmation of your preseht rank.
Hm.
.
.
said Jia Zheng.
We shall see.
Lin conferred with his master on one or two other matters and then left.
After Jia Zhengs departure, Cousin Zhen and Jia Lian returned to their separate apartments, while Bao-yu went back to Grandmother Jias.
He was now able to tell her all about 4 is day at the Palace.
He described how kindly the Prince had treated him, and took out the jade he had been given, which was passed round and commented on with some amusement.
Grandmother Jia told a maid to put it safely away.
And dont whatever you do take your own off, she said to Bao-yu.
You dont want to go getting them.
mixed up.
Bao-yu promptly untied his original from around his neck.
But look, he said, theyre so different, how could I ever get them mixed up?
That reminds me, Grannie, of something that happened the other night, as I was going to bed.
I had just taken my jade off and hung it inside the bed-curtains, when I noticed a halo around it, and the whole inside of my bed was lit up with a rosy glow.
You silly boy!
exclaimed Grandmother Jia.
Theres red thread in your pelmet.
That must have been the lamp-light showing through.
But it couldnt have been.
The lamps were all out and it was pitch-black in my room, and I still saw it glowing.
Lady Xing and Lady Wang exchanged a meaningful smile.
A certain rosy event had been much in the forefront of their minds recently.
Xi-feng too could not restrain herself from remarking cryptically No doubt this heralds the Big Event... What big event?
asked Bao-yu.
Nothing you would understand, put in Grandmother Jia promptly.
Now come along.
Its been a hectic day for you, and you ought to go and rest, and not waste any more time here telling tall stories.
Bao-yu stayed a minute or two longer and then returned to the Garden.
When he was out of the room, Grandmother Jia turned to Lady Wang Well, have you been to see Mrs Xue, and put it to her yet?
Yes Mother, we have, replied Lady Wang.
Feng has been so busy with little Qiao-jie the last few days, and we just havent had a chance to go until today.
Anyway, my sister seems very happy with the idea, but she says she will have to wait until Pan comes home before saying anything final.
She must consult him first, as the eldest man in the family.
Quite right, said Grandmother Jia.
We shall have to bide our time until they have had a chance to talk it over.
In the meantime, not a word of this to anyone.
We must leave these matrimonial confabulations and accompany the unwitting subject of them, who on his arrival at Green Delights confided to Aroma Grannie and Feng were being most mysterious about something just now.
I dont know whats going on.
Aroma looked thoughtful for a moment.
Ive no idea either, she finally returned, with a peculiar smile, adding as if it were an afterthought I wonder, was Miss Lin there when they were talking?
Of course not!
You know shes been ill and has to stay in.
Their conversation was interrupted by the sound of Musk and Ripple having a tiff in the next room.
What is the matter with you two?
Aroma called out.
Its all Ripples fault!
replied Musk.
Shes been cheating at cards!
She took my money fast enough when she won, but now that Ive won she wont let go of a penny.
And now Im cleaned right out!
Oh come on!
Bao-yu chided them with a laugh.
Stop being so stupid!
Who, wants to quarrel over a few coins?
They both pouted and went off in high dudgeon, leaving Aroma.
to settle Bao-yu down for the night.
Now Aroma was sure that the mysterious conversation Bao-yu had referred to in some way concerned his betrothal.
She had only feigned ignorance for fear that in his present mood, mention of such a touchy subject might provoke another of his fits.
She herself was most anxious to know the latest news, and while she lay, awake that night she decided to go and see Nightingale first thing in the morning.
Nightingale would be sure to know, and would be able to tell her what was going on.
And so the next day she rose early, and after seeing Bao-yu off to school, completed her own toilet and strolled through the Garden to the Naiads House.
Nightingale was out in the front courtyard picking flowers, and greeted her with a smile Hello, Aroma.
Do come in and sit down.
Thank you.
Busy with your flowers, I see... How is Miss Lin?
She has lust finished her toilet.
Shes waiting for her medicine to be warmed up.
Nightingale took Aroma inside.
Dai-yu was reading a book, which provided Aroma with a ready-made topic of conversation.
She gave an ingratiating smile Itd be a wonder if you didnt feel tired sometimes, Miss, reading at such an early hour.
If Master Bao would only follow your good example!
Dai-yu smiled wanly and put her book down.
Meanwhile Snowgoose had come in with a small tray .containing two cups, one of medicine and one of water.
She was followed by a junior maid bearing spittoon and bowl.
Aromas intention in coming had been to sound them out but somehow amid all these medical ministrations an easy opening failed to present itself, and she reckoned that it was not worth running the risk of offending the prickly Miss Lin on the offchance of obtaining the information she wanted.
So, after sitting there a little longer and making a little desultory chat, she said goodbye and set off back home.
She was approaching Green Delights, when she saw to her considerable surprise two male figures standing a little way off, and thought it more discreet not to proceed any further.
One of them had already spotted her, however, and came running up.
It turned out to be Ploughboy, one of Bao-yus pages.
What do you think youre doing here?
she asked him.
Master Yuns lust come with a letter for Master Bao, and hes waiting for a reply.
But you know perfectly well that Master Bao goes to school every day, so whats the point of waiting?
Thats what I told him, said Ploughboy, grinning sheepishly.
But he just said that I was to tell you and hed wait for your reply instead.
A suitable retort was already on Aromas lips when she noticed that the other man had started slinking towards them.
A closer inspection confirmed that the stealthy intruder was indeed Jia Yun.
She turned to Ploughboy and said briskly Tell him his letter will be delivered to Master Bao in due course.
Jia Yuns slow and sinuous progress had been designed to camouflage his true aim, which was to achieve a tte-atte with the delectable Miss Aroma.
His dismissal which he heard only too clearly, when almost within reach of his goal, obliged him to abandon these plans and come to a premature standstill.
Aroma turned smartly on her heel and walked on into Green Delights, leaving Ploughboy to escort the crestfallen Jia Yun from the Garden.
Aroma related the incident that evening to Bao-yu, on his return from school That Master Yun from West Lane was here today, she said briefly.
What did he want?
He left a note for you.
Where is it?
Id better see what it says.
Musk went to fetch Yuns note from the bookshelf in the inner ro6m, and handed it to Bao-yu.
The envelope bore the inscription To My Honoured Uncle.
Funny, said Bao-yu.
I thought I was supposed to be his father!
What?
retorted Aroma.
Dont you remember, the year before last when he sent me that white Autumn Crab-blossom, he signed himself my "Dutiful and Affectionate Son"?
It seems Ive been demoted to plain Uncle...
Honestly!
exclaimed Aroma.
The pair of you should be thoroughly ashamed of yourselves!
Fancy a grown man like him passing himself off as your son!
He ought to know better!
And as for you... Father Bao indeed!
Why youre not even... Aroma stopped short.
She blushed and gave a little smile.
Bao-yu knew what she meant.
Who knows?
he quipped.
Perhaps he thought of me as his Spiritual Father, like that -747 celebrated celibate of yore whose children could be numbered by the score...
I only agreed to it because I thought he was quite clever and a likeable sort of fellow if hes changed his mind, I really couldnt care less.
If you want to know, he gives me the creeps, Aroma continued, as Bao-yu opened the letter.
Hes for ever trying to worm his way in, and looks so shifty about it.
I wouldnt trust him an inch.
Bao-yu was too absorbed in examining the contents of the letter to take any notice of what she was saying.
She studied his face as he read.
A frown, then a smile, which soon gave way to a shake of the head, and finally an expression of impatience.
When he seemed to have finished, she asked Whats it all about then?
By way of response Bao-yu tore the letter into shreds.
Aroma thought it wiser to change the subject.
Are you planning to do some work after dinner or not?
What a cad!
She smiled at this capricious reply Well, what was it about?
Oh who cares!
Lets have dinner.
Then Im going straight to bed.
I feel quite sick!
He told one of the junior maids to light a fire and threw the remains of Yuns letter into it.
Supper was soon served, but Bao-yu was in no mood for it and only sat there staring glumly in front of him.
After trying every form of pressure and persuasion Aroma finally succeeded in making him swallow a mouthful, only to see him put his bowl down once more and flop listlessly onto his bed.
Suddenly he began to cry.
Neither she nor Musk had the slightest idea what was the matter.
"Come on, youve got to tell us, protested Musk.
Its all this Yuns fault, or whatever his wretched name is.
I cant imagine what his stupid letter was all about, to have such a queer effect on you, laughing one minute, crying your heart out the next.
If you carry on in this strange way much longer, youll worry us to death, indeed you will!
She was on the verge of tears herself.
Aroma could not help smiling Musky dear, dont you go making things worse, please.
Hes got quite enough on his mind as it is.
Unless of course you want people to think the letter had something to do with you... Well, thats a stupid remark I must say!
replied Musk.
You dont know what it said, anyway.
It might have been anything.
Why drag me into it?
Unless of course its got something to do with you... Before Aroma could reply there was a splutter of laughter from the bed and Bao-yu sat up, gave his clothes a shake and said to them both Come on, thats enough.
Lets go to sleep.
Ive got to work early in the morning.
With these words he settled himself down and went to sleep.
The night passed uneventfully, and next morning, after completing his toilet, he set off for school.
He had just walked 6ut of the doorway when he remembered something and, calling to Tealeaf to wait, turned back.
Musk!
She came hurrying out.
Whats the matter?
If Yun comes today, tell him not to make a nuisance of himself here again or Ill report him to Her Old Ladyship and Sir Zheng.
I will.
Bao-yu set off once more, and was on his way out when who should come bustling in but J ia Yun himself.
When he saw Bao-yu he promptly saluted and said My heartiest congratulations, Uncle!
Bao-yu took this as a reference to th,e business contained in the previous days letter and replied curtly You tactless meddling fool!
It makes no difference to you if there are things people care about.
But Uncle!
protested Yun with a smug smile.
If you dont believe me, take a look for yourself.
The crowds are outside the gate.
What are you talking about?
snapped Bao-yu, the anger rising in his voice.
At that moment a wave of shouting and cheering came wafting in from the street outside.
Hear that!
exclaimed Jia Yun.
Now will you believe me?
Bao-yu was more perplexed than ever.
He could distinguish a few words above the general din Have you people no manners?
What do you mean by coming here and making this racket?
Another voice replied The hand that raised Sir Jia has given us the privilege of bearing tidings other houses would be only too glad of receiving!
Bao-yu understood at last that his fathers promotion had been officially announced, and that the din outside the gates was coming from a crowd of professional well-wishers their joy made the more vocal by the expectation of a tip.
He was delighted and hurried on out of the Garden, only to be cornered again by Jia Yun.
Happy Uncle?
Needless to say the joy would be doubled if we could only announce your betrothal as well... Bao-yu blushed fiercely and spat in Jia Yuns face Ugh!
Why dont you clear off?
You make m,e sick!
Jia Yun blushed too.
Whats this?
I can see youre a little.
.
A little what?
asked Bao-yu angrily.
But Jia Yu,ns nerve failed him and he left his remark unfinished.
Bao-yu hurried off to school, where Dai-ru greeted him with a smile I have just heard the good news, my boy.
I must say, I am somewhat surprised to see you here at all today.
I thought I should report to you first, sir, before going to offer my congratulations, replied Bao-yu with a polite smile.
I see.
Well, no need to attend class today.
Take a days grace.
But please try not to fritter it away in that garden of yours.
At your age, though you may not be able to take an active part in family affairs, I am sure you would benefit greatly from the company of your older cousins.
Yes, sir.
Bao-yu returned home.
As he was approaching the inner gate of Grandmother Jias apartment, he encountered Li Gui coming in the opposite direction.
Im glad youre back, said Li Gui, halting by his side with a smile.
I was on my way to school to fetch you.
Who told you to?
asked Bao-yu.
Her Old Ladyship sent someone round to your place, replied Li Gui, but the maids said you had already gone to school, so she sent someone with instructions for me to arrange a few days off school for you.
I hear they are having players over for the festivities.
Anyway, thanks, youve saved me ajourney.
Bo-yu went in, to find Grandmother Jias front courtyard overflbwing with maids and serving-women, their loyal faces beaming with pleasure and excitement Youre late, Master Bao!
Youd better hurry on in and congratulate Her Old Ladyship!
Bao-yus face lit up.
When he entered the room, he found Grandmother Jia with Dai-yu and Xiang-yun sitting to her left and right up on the kang, while assembled down below were Ladies Xing and Wang, Tan-chun, Xichun, Li Wan, Xi-feng, Li Wans two cousins Wen and Qi, and Lady Xings niece Xing Xiu-yan.
He noticed that Bao-chai, Bao-qin and Ying-chun were not there.
Overjoyed to see such a gathering, Bao-yu offered his congratulations first to Grandmother Jia, then to his mother and Lady Xing, and then greeted the rest of the family.
He turned to Dai-yu with- a smile and said Are you quite recovered now, coz?
Yes, thank you, replied Dai-yu, with a hint of a smile.
And you?
I heard that you were not very well yourself.
Yes, I had a sudden pain in my heart that night.
Its been better for quite a while, but Ive been having to go to school every day, so I havent been able to come over and see you.
Before he had even finished speaking, Dai-yu turned away to talk to Tan-chun.
Xi-feng was standing near them and observed sarcastically I thought you two were meant to be inseparable?
The way you talk anyone would think you were strangers.
Still, I suppose His to honour, Hers to obey... Everyone laughed.
The colour flew into Dai-yus face and at first she was quite speechless with embarrassment.
But thinking that some sort of reply was expected of her, she finally came out with Whod expect you to understand... which seemed to amuse everyone even more.
After a moments reflection Xi-feng realized that her joke had been in rather poor taste, and she was about to introduce a fresh topic of conversation, in an attempt to clear the air a little, when Bao-yu suddenly turned to Daiyu and said Coz, do you know what that tactless, blundering fool Yun tried to...
But whatever it was he had been going to say, he thought better of it.
There was a puzzled laugh from the others.
Someone said What are you talking about?
Dai-yu was as much in the dark as they were and smiled awkwardly.
Bao-yu extricated himself by launching off at another tangent I heard just now that someone is planning to send over some players.
When are they coming, does anyone know?
They all stared at him in amazement and laughed.
It was Xi-feng who replied Youre the one whos heard.
Why ask us?
Id better go and check, he said promptly.
Now dont go getting into mischief out there, warned his grandmother.
You dont want the crowd to make fun of you, do you?
And remember, this is a very special day for your father, and if he comes home and finds you gadding about, theres sure to be trouble.
Yes, Grannie, replied Bao-yu, and effected his escape.
When he had gone, Grandmother Jia asked Xi-feng Whats all this about sending players?
Uncle Wang Zi-shengs family, replied Xi-feng, want to do something to congratulate you and Uncle Zheng and Auntie.
Theyve hired a new troupe of young actors specially, and they say that the day after tomorrow is a lucky one.
Xi-feng laughed And it is too, in more ways than one.
She looked at Dai-yu and smiled.
Dai-yu smiled shyly back.
Of course!
exclaimed Lady Wang.
Its our niece 5 birthday!
When Grandmother Jia had taken in what they were saying she laughed out loud It just goes to show how absent-minded Im getting in my old age!
Its a good thing Ive Secretary Feng here to keep me organized.
Well, what could be better.
they can celebrate your Uncle Zhengs promotion, and we can celebrate your birthday at the same time!
This had everyone laughing, and it was proposed and carried unanimously that with such an apt way of putting things, the old lady positively had a right to enjoy such prodigious good fortune.
Bao-yu had returned in time to hear about the party and was beside himself with joy.
They all sat down to lunch in an atmosphere of great excitement.
After lunch, Jia Zheng returned from giving thanks at court, and having performed his ceremonial prostrations in the family shrine, came in to kotow before Grandmother Jia.
He rose to his feet and said a few words before leaving to pay various official calls.
Over the next day or two there was constant bustle and confusion, as a stream of relatives besieged Rong-guo House.
Horses and carriages thronged the main entrance, and in every corner important-looking gentlemen in starched official hats trimmed with sable sat waiting their turn.
Truly Where flowers bloom, Bees and butterflies abound Skies and oceans swell When the moon is round.
Two days later, the players, on the instructions of Wang Zi-sheng and other relations, arrived early in the morning to set up their mobile stage in Grandmother Jias courtyard, facing the main hall.
The Jia menfolk, in full dress, entertained their relatives in the open courtyard, where more than ten tables had been laid.
A special glass play-viewing screen had been put up between the courtyard and the gallery overlooking it from the north side, and four tables had been laid in the enclosed space, to give the ladies a chance of seeing the plays, and particularly for Grandmother Jias benefit as she was more enthusiastic about the whole venture than anyone else.
Aunt Xue was installed at the head of the table of honour, with her sister Lady Wang and her niece Bao-qin, while Grandmother Jia sat at the head of the table opposite with Lady Xing and her niece Xiu-yan.
The two remaining tables were still empty, and Grandmother Jia sent word for the girls to hurry up.
Presently Dai-yu arrived, ushered in by Xi-feng and a convoy of maids.
She had chosen one or two of her newer things to wear, and as she came into the enclosure she looked exactly like the Goddess of the Moon descending to Earth.
She greeted Grandmother Jia and her aunts with a shy smile, and Xiang-yun and the two Li sisters asked her to Sit at the head of their table.
Her polite refusals were soon over-ruled by Grandmother Jia Go on, you must, dear.
After all, this is your day too!
Really?
exclaimed Aunt Xue, rising to her feet.
Is Miss Lin celebrating something today as well?
Grandmother Jia laughed Its her birthday!
Oh goodness, I quite forgot!
How awful of me!
Aunt Xue went up to Dai-yu Im so sorry.
I hope youll forgive me for being so forgetful.
I must ask Bao-qin to call on you later and wish you happy returns properly.
Please dont go to such trouble on my account, murmured Dai-yu with a smile.
She looked around her as they all sat down, and noticed that Bao-chai had not come.
I hope Cousin Chai isnt ill or anything.
Why couldnt she come today?
She was going to, replied Aunt Xue.
But we needed someone to look after things at home, so in the end she had to stay behind.
Dai-yu flushed and said with a slightly puzzled smile Surely now that Cousin Pans married theres no need for her to stay at home?
She probably didnt feel in the mood for all the noise and excitement.
Im sorry she didnt come.
I miss her such a lot.
Aunt Xue smiled How very sweet of you, dear.
She thinks of you all a great deal too.
In a day or two I must tell her to come over and have a chat.
The maids were already pouring wine and setting out dishes on the tables, while outside in the courtyard the show had begun.
It opened, predictably enough, with a couple of festive pieces.
The third selection, however, turned out to be something of a novelty.
A chorus of Golden Pages and Jade Maidens came onto the stage, fairy streamers fluttering and flags aloft, to reveal in their midst a gorgeously attired lady, her head draped in black, her costume shimmering with the celestial hues of the Rainbow Skirt and Feathered Jacket.
She or rather he, for the part was played by a female impersonator sang a short aria and then left the stage.
None of the family could identify the piece at.
all, but they overheard one of the guests saying That was "The Transfiguration", from one of their latest productions, "The Palace of Pearls".
It tells the story of Chang E, who comes down to earth from her palace in the moon and is about to give her hand to her mortal lover when the Goddess of Mercy opens her eyes to the truth, and she dies before the marriage can take place.
In that scene, she is being wafted up to the moon.
Didnt you catch the words of her aria?
-1467 Tis Love that rules the minds of men, And of this Truth Eternal Obscures all trace That even harvest moons must wane And purest beauty vernal Fade from grace.
Alas, twas Mortal Love That veiled my sight, And all but stole me From my Orb of Light.
Next on the programme was A Wife Eats Husks, from The Story of the Lute, followed by Bodhidharma and his Disciple Crossing the River, from The Pilgrims Path.
This last scene was full of the most spectacular feats of acrobatic mime and other phantasmagorical effects.
The excitement had just reached its height when one of the Xue familys servants, his face dripping with sweat, burst into the courtyard auditorium and hurried over to Xue Kes table Master Ke!
Come home quickly!
And send word in to Madam that she must come too.
Its very urgent!
Whats happened?
asked Xue Ke.
Ill tell you when we get home, sir!
panted the boy.
Without even stopping to thank his hosts, Xue Ke followed the boy out of the courtyard, sending one of the Jia maids in with a message to the ladies enclosure.
When Aunt Xue heard the news, she went white in the face.
Taking Bao-qin with her, she made a distracted farewell and went straight out to her carriage, leaving the whole assembly in a state of high alarm.
We had better send someone over with them, said Grandmother Jia.
I am sure everyone is most anxious to learn what this is all about.
They all agreed.
The players continued with their programme.
But we must leave them and follow Aunt Xue, who on her arrival at home saw two yamen runners waiting in the inner gateway.
With them were some employees from the family pawnshop.
When Mrs Xue arrives, they were saying, shell be able to explain everything.
When the yamen runners saw this elderly lady sweeping up to the gate with her large retinue of male and female attendants, and realized the distinguished position of the.
person they were dealing with, they stood to attention and let her pass.
Aunt Xue went on through the reception hall and could already hear the sound of heavy wailing coming from her daughter-in-laws apartment.
She quickened her step.
Bao-chai came out to meet her, her face wet with tears.
Have you heard, Mama?
Please dont panic!
We must try to do something!
They went inside together.
Aunt Xue had already been told the main facts by one of the servants on her way in, and was still sobbing and trembling from the shock.
But who?
Who was it?
she asked agitatedly.
Madam, said one of the servants, details like that are not going to make much difference at present.
The law says "a life for a life".
So we must think what to do.
Think!
cried Aunt Xue hysterically.
Whats the earthly good of thinking at a time like this?
The best thing as we see it, continued the servant, is this.
First, send young Master Ke with some money tonight to visit Mr Pan in prison.
Then, first thing tomorrow, Master Ke must get himself a good scrivener, someone well-versed in legal terminology.
He must offer him a good fee to make sure this death-sentence is quashed.. Then, when thats been done, we must ask one of the Jia gentlemen here to pull a few strings.
But first of all, we must tip the yamen runners outside a few taels.
Then we can get on with the rest of the plan.
Aunt Xue was not convinced.
Just find the mans family, she said.
Give them whatever they want for funeral expenses and compensation.
If they dont press the charge, surely hell be let off lightly?
Bao-chais voice could be heard through the door-curtain No, Mama, that will never do.
The m6re money we hand out the more trouble well cause in the long run.
We should do as the boy says.
What have I left to live for?
sobbed Aunt Xue.
Let me go there and see him once!
Then the two of us can die together!
Bao-chai begged her to take heart, and at the same time called out for the boy to set off with Xue Ke at once.
The maids helped Aunt Xue indoors again.
Xue Ke came by on his way out.
Send someone home with letter as soon as you have any news, Bao-chai instructed him.
You must stay there.
Were counting on you.
Xue Ke promised to do his utmost and left.
While Bao-chai applied herself once more to the task of soothing her agitated mother, Xia Jin-gui took the opportunity of launching an undisturbed attack on Caltrop So a murder was nothing to this family, was it?
she screamed at her.
You all came straight up to town afterwards as if nothing had happened, did you?
Well it looks as if you spoke once too often, Miss Swanky Panky!
Because this time its the real thing, and look at you!
Wheres all your money and all your fine friends and posh relatives now?
Youre all so scared you dont know if youre coming or going!
And in a few days, when they put Pan away, then I suppose youll bugger off and leave me here to carry the can single-handed!
She broke into one of her dramatic wails.
Aunt Xue heard every word and was so furious that she fainted.
Bao-chai was at her wits end.
And in the midst of this pandemonium one of Lady Wangs senior maids arrived, to ask if there was any news.
This presented Bao-chai with an additional problem.
She was fully aware of her delicate position since the official betrothal visit a few days previously, and knew that strictly speaking she should shun all contact with her future bridegrooms family including the domestic staff.
However, the fact that the betrothal was still not finally settled, and the nature of the present emergency, seemed to justify a temporary waiving of the rules.
We dont know the full story yet, she said to the maid.
All weve heard is that my brother has killed someone and that he has been arrested by the local magistrate.
We dont know exactly what kind of homicide he has been found guilty of, but Master Ke has gone to find Out.
We should have more definite news in a day or two and will let Her Ladyship know straight away.
Please thank her for her kind inquiry and say that at a later stage well be sure to need all the support Sir She and Sir Zheng can give us.
The maid returned with this message.
The next two days were spent by Aunt Xue and Baochai waiting in unbearable suspense.
At last on the third day a boy came back with a letter from Xue Ke, which he gave to a maid to hand to the ladies.
Bao-chai opened it, and this is what she read Pans case is "fatal bodily harm by mischance", not intentional homicide".
I lodged an appeal in my own name first thing this morning and am still waiting for the magistrates rescript.
Pan bungled his original statement, and once the appeal has been approved, we must change his plea at the rehearing.
We should be able to get him off.
I urgently need TLs.
500 .
Have the pawnshop forward it without delay.
Tell Aunt not to worry.
The boy can tell you the rest.
When Bao-chai had finished reading the letter aloud to her, Aunt Xue wiped her eyes and said His life hangs in the balance, doesnt it?
Before you go upsetting yourself all over again, Mama, said Bao-chai, lets send for the boy and ask him what he knows.
A maid was sent to fetch the boy.
When he came in, Aunt Xue told him to give them a full account of everything he had heard.
The evening we arrived, he began, when I heard what Mr Pan told Master Ke, I nearly died of fright...
But for the rest of the account, please turn to the next chapter.
CHAPTER 86 Bribery induces an old mandarin to tamper with the course of justice And a discourse on the Qin provides a young lady with a vehicle for romantic feelings It was told in the last chapter how Bao-chai read Xue Kes letter aloud to her mother, who then summoned the boy and told him to peat whatever Xue Pan had said about his misadventure.
I couldnt make out every word, maam, he began, but I did hear Mr Pan tell Master Ke that...
He glanced quickly round the room, and having satisfied himself that there was no one else present, continued that he couldnt stand any more of the terrible scenes at home, and had decided to go on a business trip in the South.
He knew someone in this town about seventy miles south of the capital, and was thinking of asking him along on his travels.
On his way to this mans house, who should he meet but that fellow Jiang Yu-han he used to be friendly with, on his way to the capital with some young actors.
The two of them went into a bar for a jug of wine and a bite to eat, and thats when things started to go wrong.
The waiter kept making eyes at Jiang, which made Mr Pan angry.
Well, Jiang left that same day.
But the next day, Mr Pan took this other man - the one he was planning to travel with - to the same bar for a drink.
After a few rounds he remembered the waiters cheeky behaviour and made a point of complaining about the wine.
The waiter took a long time coming with a fresh jug Mr Pan picked up his cup and aimed it at the waiters face.
Well, the waiter turned out to be a daring sort of rogue himself he stuck his head out and challenged Mr Pan to hit him.
Next thing, wham!
Mr Pan smashed the cup right down on top of his head.
Blood came spurting out, and the waiter went down, cursing and swearing.
Then he came over all quiet...
But why on earth did nobody try to stop them?
asked Aunt Xue.
I didnt hear Mr Pan say anything about that, maam.
Thats all I know.
All right.
You may go and rest now.
Thank you maam.
So saying, the boy went out.
Aunt Xue went first to her sister and entrusted her with the task of enlisting Jia Zhengs support.
When Lady Wang brought the matter up and gave Jia Zheng a detailed account of what had happened, he hummed and hawed and said that he could do nothing until Xue Kes appeal had gone through the normal channels and the judge had issued his rescript.
Aunt Xue had the five hundred taels weighed out in the family pawnshop and gave it to the boy to deliver posthaste to Xue Ke.
Three days later, the letter they were waiting for arrived.
It was handed to Aunt Xue, who setit a lunior maid at once to fetch Bao-chai.
She hurried over, and this is what she read Dear Aunt.
Tls.
500 received and distributed as tips among the yamen staff.
Pan is being reasonably treated in jail, so please dont worry.
Our problem is that the people here are being very awkward.
Neither the dead mans family nor the eyewitnesses will cooperate.
Even Pans so-called friend - the one he invited to travel with him - is on their side.
Its especially hard for Li Xiang and myself, as strangers, but luckily we have managed to find a good scrivener who has agreed to help us - for a pretty stiff fee.
His advice was that we should get to work on Wu Liang thats the "friend".
First, since he was being held in custody as a primary witness, we should get someone to stand bail for him then offer him money to corroborate our plea of death by mischance.
If Wu refused to cooperate we were to try accusing him of being the murderer himself and of using an outsider as a scapegoat.
Hed be too scared then not to play along.
So far so good.
We got Wu out on bail, bribed the family and various other witnesses, and lodged our appeal the day before yesterday.
The rescript was issued today.
It speaks for itself.
Bao-chai went on to read out the copy of the appeal and appended rescript.
APPEAL brought by Xue Ke, younger cousin of and proxy for the defendant, Xue Pan, wrongfully convicted of the Intentional Homicide by Blows of Zhang San, late of this county.
STATEMENT OF FACTS The defendant, registered domicile Nanking, at present resident in the capital, on the of the month, left home intending to do business in the Southern Provinces.
Not many days later, his servant returned home with the news that the defendant had been involved in an incident in which another party had lost his life.
The appellant came hither in all haste, to discover that the above-mentioned Mr Zhang had indeed met his death at the hand of the defendant, but that it was a case of Fatal Bodily Harm by Mischance and not of Intentional Homicide by Blows, as previously alleged.
PLEA On arrival at the County Jail, the appellant was a witness to the most earnest protestations of innocence on the part of the defendant, and hearty denial of any previous animosity to-wards Zhang, with whom indeed he had not been in the slightest degree acquainted before the incident in question, which had occurred solely as the result of a trivial disagreement over a jug of wine.
The defendant, by way of complaint, emptied the contents of his cup onto the floor.
At precisely the same instant, the deceased bent down to retrieve some object from an adjacent spot, slipping as he did so, with the unfortunate, but entirely accidental consequence that a fatal collision occurred between the defendants cup and the deceaseds os bregmatis.
When Your Honour saw fit to apprehend the defendant and subject him to judicial interrogation, his terror of the rack was so extreme that he rashly admitted the charge of Homicide by Blows, thus bringing upon himself the sentence of Strangulation, with possibility of Commutation to Exile.
Your Honour, in your great Wisdom and Clemency, aware no doubt of some latent injustice, has delayed passing sentence until the present time.
The defendant, being in custody, is prevented by law from appealing pro sua parte.
The appellant has therefore been emboldened by considerations of family loyalty to act on his behalf, most humbly and earnestly beseeching Your Honour to reopen the case and subject all parties concerned to a second examination.
This would be a magnanimous course of action, and one that would earn the never-ending gratitude and lifelong devotion of the appellant and his entire family.
Bao-chai now came to the judges rescript, which read as follows -1344 RESCRIPT -5947 An inquest was held at the scene of the crime, and the evidence heard was conclusive.
No torture of any kind was applied to the defendant, who freely admitted the charge, viz.
Homicide by Blows.
His admission of guilt has now been officially entered in the records.
You, the appellant, an outsider with no first-hand knowledge of the case, in presuming to fabricate this unfounded appeal are guilty of contempt of court.
In view of the mitigating circumstances of family loyalty, your offence will be overlooked in this instance.
-1344 APPEAL REJECTED Theres no hope left then!
cried Aunt Xue.
What can we do now?
That isnt all, said Bao-chai.
Theres a P.S.
She read on For confidential instructions, ask the boy - urgent.
Aunt Xue immediately questioned the boy, who supplied the following information The people at the yamen know how rich we are, maam, and Master Ke says well have to use family connections here in the capital, and send another large bribe, if were to get a rehearing and a lighter sentence.
He says you must act quickly, maam, as delay now could mean hardship for Mr Pan.
Aunt Xue dismissed the boy and went at once to see her sister again.
Lady Wang pleaded strenuously with Jia Zheng, but the most he was prepared to do was send someone to have a word with the judge.
He refused to contemplate the use of pecuniary considerations.
Aunt Xue, fearing that this gesture would prove ineffective, begged Xi-feng to speak to Jia Lian.
The judges price was high - the figure ran into several thousands of taels but in the end an agreement was reached, and the way was clear for Xue Ke to proceed with his plan.
The case was officially re-opened, and all the parties concerned were summoned once more to the district yamen - the beadle, eye-witnesses, relatives of the deceased, etc.
Xue Pan was brought out from the cells.
The clerk of the court called the roll, and the judge ordered the chief beadle to verify the original depositions.
Then Mrs Zhang nee Wang and Zhang Er, the deceaseds mother and uncle, were called to give evidence.
Mayt please Yeronner, began Mrs Zhang, punctuating her delivery with sobs, we Zhangs are country folk and live to the south of town.
Papa Zhangs been gone these eighteen years.
We had the three boys, but our eldest and second have both passed away.
The only one as I had left was our third, and now hes gone too!
More sobs.
Twenty-three this year hedve been, anitplease Yeronner, and still a single lad.
Hed took this job at Lis Bar by way 0 helpin me out, seem as wed so little comin in.
Itdve been bout midday when this man come to the door-I can see im now -"Theres been a fight at Lis Bar!"
says he, "And your boys been killed!"
My poor heart, Yeronner!
I was took that bad!
I runned to Lis and there was my boy lyin on the ground, the blood runnin out is poor ead!
I tried askin im what ad appened, but e couldnt say nothing, e was ardly breathin, and then ... well, then e was gone!
If I could only get my hands on that wickedevilmurderin A growl of disapproval rippled through the ranks of the court underlings.
Mrs Zhang rapidly kotowed to the bench All Im askin for is reglar justice Yeronner!
He was all I ad left in the world!
Next witness - Gaffer Li!
called the judge peremptorily.
Gaffer Li, proprietor of Lis Bar, came forward and knelt before the bench.
Was this fellow Zhang employed for casual work on your premises?
asked the judge.
He was a regular waiter, replied Li.
I see here that in your original deposition, as recorded at the Inquest, you state that Xue Pan dealt Zhang San a fatal blow on the head.
Tell me, did you personally observe this blow?
No, Your Honour.
I was behind the counter at the time, in the tap-room.
I heard that one of the customers in a private room had ordered some wine.
Then a little later I heard that someone had been hurt.
I ran in and saw Zhang San lying on the floor.
He couldnt speak.
I informed the beadle, and sent someone to tell Mrs Zhang.
I have no idea how the fight started.
There was a gentleman sitting at Mr Xues table, Your Honour.
Perhaps he could supply the necessary information... What!
thundered the judge impressively.
In your original deposition it says quite plainly that you saw the incident with your own eyes.
Are you now trying to tell me that you saw nothing?
When I made that first statement, Your Honour, I was in such a fluster that I must have got my facts a bit muddled... Another growl through the ranks.
Next witness!
ordered the judge.
The next witness was Wu Liang, Xue Pans friend.
Tell me, said the judge, were you sitting drinking with the defendant at the time of the crime?
Exactly how did the fatal blow occur?
Be sure to speak the truth.
On the day in question, Your Honour, replied Wu, Mr Xue called at my house and kindly invited me out for a drink.
As he was dissatisfied with the 4uality of the wine, he ordered a fresh jug to be brought.
But the waiter, Zhang San, refused to oblige.
This annoyed Mr Xue, and by way of protest he threw the contents of his cup in the waiters face.
It all happened very fast, and somehow the cup must have slipped from Xues hand and collided with Zhangs head.
This is a true account of the incident as I saw it with my own eyes.
Nonsense!
cried the judge.
Why, at the Inquest the defendant himself admitted to "assaulting Zhang and dealing the fatal blow with the cup", and you verified the admission yourself.
This is perjury!
Slap his face!
An answering cry came from the appropriate section of the court, and the punishment was about to be administered, when Wu protested Mr Xue never started a fight, sir!
The cup slipped from his hand and collided with Zhangs head!
It was all an accident!
Question the defendant himself!
Have mercy!
The judge summoned Xue Pan.
Now, Xue, for the last time, tell me what was your grudge against Zhang San?
And how did he meet with his death?
I want the whole truth!
Your Honour, be merciful I beseech you!
pleaded Xue Pan.
I never raised a hand to strike the man.
All I did was empty my cup on the floor because he refused to bring the wine I had ordered.
Before I knew it, the cup slipped from my hand and struck him on the head.
I did all I could to staunch the wound, but it was hopeless.
The loss of blood was so great that he died in a matter of minutes.
At the Inquest I was in such fear of torture that I made a false confession of assault.
I beg Your Honour to show mercy accordingly!
Miserable wretch!
bellowed the judge.
You have already pleaded guilty to intentional assault.
Are you now trying to say that it was no more than an accidental collision?
He went on in this fashion, making a series of suitably august noises, threatening Pan with the rod one minute and the rack the next, if he would not confess.
This time, however, Pan persisted in his denial.
The coroner was now called upon to make public the results of his post-mortem.
May it please Your Honour, I have duly examined the corpse of Zhang San, and find no trace of injury but a single scalp-wound, caused by a porcelain artifact.
The wound is approximately one and three-quarter inches in length, penetrating to a depth f half an inch.
The bregmatic bone has sustained a fracture approximately one third of an inch in length.
The type of wound points unmistakably to a collision of an accidental nature.
The judge checked the coroners certificate, which as he knew quite well had been altered by his clerk, and without raising any objections casually asked all concerned to sign their statements.
But Yeronner!
wailed Mrs Zhang.
What about all them other wounds?
Ever so many there was!
Coronary said so himself last time, I remember!
Whereve they all got to now?
Foolish woman!
exclaimed the judge.
Here is the certificate, duly signed - see for yourself.
He called the dead mans uncle forward a more cooperative witness Zhang Er, will you tell the court how many wounds there were on your nephews corpse?
Just the one on his skull, sir, replied Zhang.
The judge turned to Mrs Zhang What further need have you of proof!
He told the clerk of the court to hand Mrs Zhang the certificate, and instructed the chief beadle and Zhang Er to explain it to her.
The other documents in the case were now collated - the proceedings of the inquest, duly authenticated with the signatures of those present at the time, and the depositions of the witnesses, which were now unanimous in stating that there had been no quarrel, ergo no assault, ergo Xue Pan was only guilty of causing fatal bodily harm by mischance, a lesser degree of manslaughter redeemable by payment of a fine.
The parties were now required to affix their signature or mark to the document, Xue Pan was detained until confirmation of his sentence was received, and Wu Liang and his guarantor were released.
The court was adjourned.
As the judge was leaving, Mrs Zhang broke into another untimely bout of wailing and sobbing, and he ordered the court lictors to send her packing.
Uncle Zhang also did what he could to bring her to her senses It really was an accident, he said, so why hold an innocent man guilty?
His Honour has passed sentence now, so for goodness sake pipe down.
Xue Ke had been waiting outside, and was greatly relieved to hear that all had gone according to plan.
He sent a letter home, saying that he planned to stay on until the confirmation came through, when he would pay Xue Pans fine.
Walking through the town later that day, he became aware of a buzz of excited conversation in the street Have you heard?
One of the Imperial Concubines has passed away, and theres to be a three-day Recess at Court Since the Imperial Mausoleum was not far from the town, Xue Ke thought to himself, the judge would now be busy preparing for the funeral and repairing the road with yellow earth for the procession.
He would hardly have time to think about routine legal matters, and consequently he himself would achieve little by hanging around.
So he went to the jail and explained to Pan that he was going home for a few days.
Pan was glad for his mothers sake, and sent a brief note to reassure her.
Im fine, he wrote.
A few more taels in the right pockets and Ill be home!
But be sure to keep the cash flowing!
Xue Ke left the boy Li Xiang behind just in case, and set off home straight away.
On arrival, he gave Aunt Xue a full account of how the judge had managed the transition from assault to mischance.
All thats left now, he finished by saying, is to give the Zhangs a bit more money.
Then, when the commutation is confirmed, it will all be over Aunt Xue breathed a sigh of relief.
I was hoping you would be able to come home, she said.
I have been wanting to go over and thank the Jias for all that theyve done, and I thought it would be nice if I could go and keep an eye on things for Aunt Wang and spend some time with the girls.
With the death of the Zhou Concubine the family is away every day and they must be rather lonely at home.
But I couldnt go until now because there was no one here to take charge.
The funny thing is that on my way here I heard it was the Jia Concubine that had died, said Xue Ke.
Thats why I came back in such a hurry - though I must say I found it hard to credit.
She was ill a while ago, replied Aunt Xue.
But she recovered, and I have heard nothing about her being ill since.
Its odd, though Lady Jia was not feeling well a few days ago, and whenever she closed her eyes she had a vision of Her Grace.
Everyone was most concerned at first, and they even sent someone to Court to inquire, but were told that Her Grace was in good health Then, three days ago, in the evening, Lady Jia suddenly said out loud "Why have you come all this way on your own to see me, Your Grace?"
This time they put it down to her illness and didnt take it seriously.
"If you dont believe me," said Lady Jia, "let me tell you what Her Grace said Prosperity may all too soon be spent draw back, draw back before it is too late."
They thought she was imagining it all - it was just the sort of thing a lady of her years would be preoccupied with, after all - and paid no attention.
So can you imagine the panic the next morning, when somehow they heard from Court that one of the Concubines was critically ill, and that all members of the family with titles were to proceed to the Palace!
They were in the most dreadful state when they set off!
But before they had even left the palace, we heard that it was the Zhou Concubine.
It is odd, dont you agree, that the rumour you heard should have tallied so exactly with Lady Jias premonitions?
The public always gets its facts mixed up, commented Bao-chai, and the Jias are so sensitive about the whole thing that theyve only to hear the words "Her Grace" mentioned to start jumping to the most dire conclusions.
It nearly always turns out to be a false alarm.
During this latest excitement, I was chatting to one or two of their maids and older serving-women, and they told me theyd known all along that it couldnt possibly have been Her Grace.
I asked one of them how they could be so sure, and she told me of something that happened several years ago.
It was the first month of the year, and there was a fortune-teller from one of the provinces here in the capital, who had been recommended to the family for his great accuracy.
Lady Jia gave instructions to slip Her Graces Eight Stems and Branches in with some of the maids, and to ask this man to tell their fortunes.
He singled hers Out at once.
"There must be some mistake here", he said.
"I see that this young lady was born on the first of the first month.
If the Stem and Branch of her natal hour were correct, she would have to be a person of high estate, and not a servant in this household."
Sir Zheng and the others urged him to cast the horoscope anyway, s6 he went on "The Cyclical Year Jia Shen Wood Metal, the Prime Month Bing Yin Fire Wood.
Both Failure and Decline are present.
Although the Year Branch Shen shows Rank and Wealth, as it is not her fate to be raised within the household, the aspect of this Branch is not particularly favourable.
The Day Yi Mao Wood Wood, commencement of Spring, Wood at its zenith.
We have here a conflict, a Configuration of Peers.
In this case it enhances the subject, just as fine timber is only fashioned into an instrument of true greatness when it encounters the axe.
The Hour Stem Xin Metal indicates Nobility, while the Hour Branch Si Fire indicates Rank and Fortune again, this time the High Degree known as Lucky Horse Rides the Sky.
The Day Conjunction shows Supreme Rank and the Forces of Heaven and the Moon presiding over her fate.
She will be favoured with residence in the Imperial Bedchamber.
If the Hour Stem and Branch are correct, this subject must be an Imperial Concubine."
As the maid said, Bao-chai continued, the horoscope fitted Her Grace perfectly.
They remembered the end part, too.
"Alas!"
he said, "such Glory cannot endure.
When Hare meets Tiger, and Wood meets Wood, in a Mao Month of a Yin Year, her Peers will outshine her, the Decline will reach its nadir, and the fine wood, through being too prettily carved, will lose its heart and strength.
Although the family in their panic forgot all about this final prediction, the maid remembered.
As she said to Cousin Wan, "this is a Yin Year, and weve already passed the Mao Month, so it couldnt be Her Grace!"
Bao-chai had hardly finished when Xue Ke exclaimed Forget about the Jias for a minute if there is such a good fortune-teller around, why not ask him about Pan?
Perhaps he could tell us what evil force has crossed his path and brought him such bad luck this year?
Give me Pans Stems and Branches, and Ill go and find out if the future holds any mote upsets in store for him.
The fortune-teller was from one of the provinces.
Who knows where he is now?
replied Bao-chai.
During this conversation, they had already started to pack Aunt Xues things.
She went over to the main mansion, to find that, as she had supposed, Li Wan, Tan-chun and the girls had been left on their own.
They welcomed her and asked.
after Xue Pan.
They were greatly relieved when she told them that he was out of danger and only waiting for confirmation of his sentence.
Mother was saying only yesterday, said Tan-chun, that shed always relied on you in the past, Auntie, whenever there was any sort of crisis, to come over and keep an eye on things.
But this time she felt she could hardly ask you, as you had enough to cope with.
She was rather uneasy about leaving us here on our own, all the same.
Ive been worrying about you myself, replied Aunt Xue.
But you know how its been this last week or two.
Your Cousin Ke has been away trying to sort out Pans affairs, and really 1 couldnt leave Bao-chai on her own, shed never be able to manage.
Especially as Pans young wife is so incompetent.
What with one thing and another, I simply havent been able to get away.
The only reason Ke has been able to come home and relieve me now is that the judge in charge of the case is going to be tied up with the Zhou Concubines funeral arrangements for a few days.
Wed be so pleased if you could stay for a day or two, said Li Wan.
Aunt Xue nodded.
I should very much like to be here and keep you girls company.
The only thing is, I am a little worried that Bao-chai may feel lonely without me.
Well why not ask her to come over as well?
suggested Xi-chun.
Aunt Xue gave a little laugh.
Oh, I couldnt do that.
But why not?
She used to live here, didnt she?
Li Wan replied for Aunt Xue.
You dont understand.
Its not the same now.
Theyre very busy at present, so she cant possibly come.
Xi-chun supposed that this was the real reason for Baochais absence, and dropped the matter.
As they were talking, Grandmother Jia and the rest of the family arrived back from their visit of condolence.
When they saw that Aunt Xue was there, preliminary courtesies were dropped for once and everyone wanted to know the latest in the Pan affair.
Aunt Xue told them the whole story.
Bao-yu was present, and pricked up his ears when he heard Jiang Yu-hans name mentioned.
Although he thought it inadvisable to show much interest in front of the others, secretly he asked himself why his old actor-friend had not been to look him up, if he was back in town.
Then, noticing that Bao-chai had not accompanied her mother, and trying to imagine what could be keeping her at home, he began to drift into one of his brown studies, and was only aroused and restored to a more cheerful frame of mind by the unexpected arrival of Dai-yu.
He stayed for dinner with the others at Grandmother Jias.
After dinner everyone retired to their respective apartments, except for Aunt Xue, who stayed the night in Grandmother Jias guest-room.
Bao-yu returned to Green Delights, and was divesting himself of his going-out clothes, when suddenly he remembered the cummerbund Jiang Yu-han had once given him as a first-meeting present.
Do you remember that crimson cummerbund I gave you?
he asked Aroma.
The one you wouldnt wear?
Have you still got it?
Ive put it away somewhere.
Why do you ask?
Oh, I just wondered.
Didnt you hear what terrible trouble Mr Pan got into, all because he made friends with such riffraff!
Will you never learn?
Havent you more sense than to go bringing up a thing like that?
Instead of filling your head with such stuff, what you should be doing is quietly concentrating on your studies.
Oh for goodness sake!
Im not the one thats got into trouble!
I just happened to think of it, thats all.
I couldnt care less whether youve still got it or not.
If Id known you were going to start giving me a lecture... Aroma smiled.
Im not giving you a lecture.
Its just that you know what people say about actors.
Now that youre studying the classics and learning all the proper rules of behaviour, you should try to conform and get on in the world.
When your sweetheart comes along, surely youll want to make a good impression then?
Goodness!
exclaimed Bao-yu, aroused by the mention of the word sweetheart, that reminds me!
There was such a crowd at Grannies, I didnt have a chance to speak to Cousin Lin, and she didnt speak to me either.
She left before I did, so shes probably home by now.
Ill be back in a minute.
He was gone.
Dont stay too long!
Aroma called after him.
Now Ive done it!
I should never have opened my mouth!
Bao-yu did not reply, but made his way directly to the Naiads House, head bowed in thought.
On arrival there, he found Dai-yu at her table, poring over a book.
Have you been back long, coz?
he asked, walking over and standing by her side.
As you were ignoring me, she said, returning his smile, there was little point in my staying...
He laughed.
Everyone was talking at once, and I couldnt get a word in.
Looking down at the page open in front of her, Bao-yu found that he couldnt understand a single character on it.
Some of them seemed familiar, like the characters for Peony and Vast but on closer inspection he saw that even they had been in some way changed.
There was the character for Hook, with a Five inside it, and a Nine and Big on top and there was a Five next to a Six, with Wood below and another Five at the very bottom.
It was all very puzzling.
You must be very advanced, to be able to decipher this esoteric script!
he said.
Dai-yu gave a little chee!
Not much of a scholar really are you!
Fancy never having seen a Qin tablature before!
Its music!
Of course!
But why dont I know any of the characters?
Do you know what they mean?
No, of course not thats why Im reading it... Do you really?
I never knew you could play.
Did you know about the Qins hanging on the wall in the main library?
There are quite a few.
I remember the year before last Father had a friend who was a Qin player - Antiquarian Ji I think be was called.
Father asked him to play a piece, but when he tried the instruments he said they were none of them fit to play.
He said that if Father really wanted to hear him play, he would come back another day with his own instrument.
But he never did.
I think he must have decided Father was tone-deaf.
Well!
So all this time youve been hiding your light under a bushel!
Oh no, replied Dai-yu.
Im no good.
It just happened that a day or two ago, when I was feeling a little better, I was looking through my bookcase and came across an old Qin Handbook.
It seemed such a fine thing, and made such fascinating reading.
It began with a preface on the general philosophy of the Qin, which I found most profound, and then it explained the technical side in great detail.
I realized that playing the Qin is a form of meditation and spiritual discipline handed down to us from the ancients.
I had a few lessons when we lived in Yangchow, and made some progress.
But since then Ive become so out of -1344 practice, and now my fingers are all "overgrown with brambles", as they say!
The first Qin Handbook I found only had the names of the Airs, it didnt have the words and music.
But now Ive found another with the Airs written out in full.
Its so interesting!
Of course, I realize that I shall never be able to do justice to the score.
To think what the great Master Musicians of the past could do - like Master Kuang, whose playing could summon wind and thunder, dragon and phoenix!
And to think that Confucius could tell from his Music Master Xiangs first notes that he was listening to a musical portrait of King Wen!
To play a Rhapsody of Hills and Streams and share its inner meaning with a fellow music-lover... Dai-yu fluttered her eyelids and slowly bowed her head.
Bao-yu was completely carried away Oh coz!
How wonderful it all sounds!
But Im afraid I still dont understand these peculiar characters.
Please teach me how to read some of them.
I dont need to teach you.
Its easy.
But Im such a fool!
Please help me!
Take that one there - all I can make 6ut is Hook, with Big on top and Five in the middle.
Dai-yu laughed at him.
The Big and Nine on top mean you stop the string with the thumb of your left hand at the ninth fret.
The Hook and Five mean you hook the middle finger of your right hand slightly and pull the fifth string towards you.
So you see, its not what we would call a character, its more a cluster of signs telling you what the next note is and how to play it.
Its very easy.
Then there are signs for all the graces - the narrow and the wide vibrato, the rising and the falling glissando, the mordent,, the tremulo, the falling glissando with open-string drone... Bao-yu was beside himself with joy.
As you understand it so perfectly, coz, why dont we start studying the Qin together?
The essence of the Qin, replied Dai-yu, is restraint.
It was created in ancient times to help man purify himself and lead a gentle and sober life, to quell all wayward passions and to curb every riotous impulse.
If you wish to play, then you must first -2214 seek out a quiet chamber, a studio with distant view, or upper room or some secluded nook mong rocks and trees, on craggy mountain-top, by waters edge... -1344 Let the weather be clear and calm, a gentle breeze, a moonlit night.
Light some incense, and sit in silent meditation.
Empty the mind of outward thoughts.
Poise Breath and Blood in Perfect Harmony.
Your Soul may now commune with the Divine, and enter into that mysterious Union with the Way.
As the ancients said, true music-lovers have always been few.
If there is no one able to share your musics true delight, then sit alone, and -1494 serenade the breeze and moonlight, hymn the ancient pines and weather-worn rocks let wild monkeys and venerable cranes hear your song, rather than the vulgar mob, whose dull ears would only sully the precious virtue of the Qin.
So much for the setting.
The next two essentials are finger-technique and touch.
And before you think of playing, be sure to dress in a suitable style - preferably in a swansdown cape or other antique robe.
Assume the dignified manner of the ancients, a manner in keeping with the chosen instrument of the sages.
Wash your hands.
Light the incense.
Sit on the edge of your couch.
Place the Qin on the table before you, and sit with your chest opposite the fifth fret.
Raise both hands slowly and gracefully.
You are now ready, in body and mind, to begin.
You must while playing observe carefully the dynamic markings - piano, forte , allegro, adagio - and maintain a relaxed but serious manner at all times.
Goodness me!
cried Bao-yu.
I was thinking we could do it for fun!
If its as complicated as that, Im not sure Id be up to it!
While they were talking Nightingale came in, and on seeing Bao-yu in the room, inquired with a smile To what are we to attribute this joyful event, Master Bao?
Cousin Dai has just been teaching me about the Qin.
Its as though scales had fallen from my eyes!
I could go on listening for ever!
I didnt mean that, said Nightingale.
What I meant was, its so rarely that we see you at all nowadays, I wondered if something out of the ordinary had happened to bring you here today?
I suppose it must seem like that, replied Bao-yu.
But the only reason Ive not been round more often is that I know Cousin Dai has not been well, and thought it best not to trouble her.
And then Ive been having to go to school... Well, interrupted Nightingale, Miss Lin has only just started to feel better, so dont you think you should let her rest now, and not wear her out giving you lessons?
Why yes!
How thoughtless of me!
he exclaimed with a laugh.
I was so absorbed in what she was Saying, that it never entered my head she might be tiring herself.
I wasnt, said Dai-yu, smiling.
Talking about music doesnt tire one, on the contrary, it raises ones spirits.
I only wonder if what I was saying wasnt beyond you...
It doesnt matter, said Bao-yu.
Im sure if we take it slowly Ill be able to understand.
He stood up.
But seriously, I think I should leave you in peace now.
Tomorrow Ill ask Tan and Xi if theyll come over with me.
You three can learn together.
I think Ill just sit in.
.. Why, you lazy thing!
laughed Dai-yu.
Imagine if we three did learn to play, and you were as ignorant as ever wouldnt we then be casting our She felt she was allowing herself to become too intimate, and suddenly stopped short.
Bao-yu only laughed Id be happy just to hear you play.
Id do anything for that - even be your swine!
Dai-yu blushed, but laughed nonetheless.
Nightingale and Snowgoose laughed too.
Bao-yu took his leave, and had reached the door, when Ripple appeared, followed by a junior maid bearing a small pot of orchid-plants.
Her Ladyship has been given four pots of these orchids, said Ripple, and she thought that, as she was so busy at the palace and wouldnt have time to appreciate them, she would give one to you, Master Bao, and one to you, Miss Lin.
Dai-yu looked at the orchids.
Among them were some of the double-headed kind, and looking at these, she had a strange sensation that they meant something.
Whether it was joy or sorrow that they portended, she could not tell.
But it was something of importance.
She stood staring at them, lost in thought.
Bao-yus mind, by contrast, was still full of vibratos and glissandos, and as he left he said gaily Now that you have these orchids, coz, youll be able to compose your own Lonely Qrchid Pavan.
And Im sure it will be just as good as the one Confucius wrote!
Dai-yus heart was too troubled to respond to this parting jest.
She walked indoors, and staring once more at her orchids, thought to herself Flowers have their spring-time, a time for fresh blossoms and young leaves.
I am young, but frail as the willow that dreads the first breath of autumn...
If all turns out for the best, I may grow stronger yet.
But if not, my fate will be like that of the fallen petals at springs end, driven by the rain and tossed in the wind These sombre reflections brought tears to her eyes.
Nightingale was puzzled to see her cry.
Just now, she thought to herself, when Master Bao was here, they were both in such high spirits and now look at her!
And all shes done is look at those flowers!
She was still trying in vain to think of some consolation to offer, when one of Bao-chais serving-women came into the room.
But if you wish to know the purpose of her visit, you must read the next chapter.
-12214 -16107 59
CHAPTER 87 Autumnal sounds combine with sad remembrances to inspire a composition on the Qin And a flood of passion allows evil spirits to disturb the serenity of Zen The serving-woman was shown into the Naiads House.
After paying her respects, she delivered a letter for Dai-yu and was taken off to drink tea with the maids.
Dai-yu opened her letter.
It was from Bao-chai, and began -347 Dear Cousin, -1344 Some malign star must surely have ruled the day of my birth!
Misfortune pursues the family at every turn!
Cousin Q in and I both fatherless Mother advanced in years to which add t -347 he sounds of bestial ululation that now emanate from our inner apartments at every hour of the day and night and, to complete this recital of family woes, Brother Pans recent and most cruel blow!
Alas!
We are indeed beset with howling winds and torrential rains!
As I lie awake at night, tossing on my bed, unable to master this grief, my only consolation is the thought of a kindred spirit such as yours.
Ah, dear Cousin!
You, I know, have the heart to share my present trials, as once you shared the joys of that golden autumn, when harmony and conviviality prevailed.
Then, united beneath the aegis of the Crab-flower Club, we tasted crustacean delicacies and contemplated chrysanthemums.
Once, I recall, you questioned the flowers thus "Who world disdainer, shares your hiding-place?
Of all the flowers, why do yours bloom so late?"
-347 The lines never fail to rive my heart.
For are not you and I late blooms, that tremble at the approaching chill?
I have endeavoured to compose a lament in four stanzas, to express these feelings of mine.
I beg you, read it not as a piece of literary art, but as a simple vessel for my tears.
-8960 Your Affectionate Cousin, Bao-chai.
The poem was attached.
-946 Alas!
the seasons turn, and turning bring once more The chill of autumn to our joy-forsaken door.
We have a flower, flos matTis is its name, Heartsease.
Poor Mother!
What art can heal thy grief, or ease thy heart?
My soul aches for thee.
The scudding clouds by biting autumn winds are blown The courtyard-walk with withered leaves is thickly strewn.
Whither shall I go?
To whom shall I turn?
My love is gone, And only an anguish too deep for words remains.
My heart is desolate.
The mighty sturgeon has his pool The stork upon the dam makes his habitation.
Fish in scaly armour, Birds in serried plumes, find protection.
In my distress I question that inscrutable expanse O bowels of earth!
O boundless sky!
-946 Will ye not hearken to my cry?
Above, the twinkling Milky Way The air cold, Slanting moonlight, The water-clock sunk past midnight.
My restless heart grieves still I read once more this sad lament, Before entrusting it to you, My kindred soul and friend!
Dai-yu was deeply moved.
She knew Id be able to understand!
she thought to herself.
Thats why she wrote to me rather than anyone else.
She was lost in thought, when a voice called from outside Is Cousin Lin at home?
Refolding the letter, she replied in a somewhat distant tone Whos that?
Her visitors were already on their way into the room -Tan-chun, Shi Xiang-yun and the two Li sisters.
The girls exchanged greetings, and Snowgoose served them with tea.
During the conversation that followed, Dai-yu found her thoughts turning back to the gathering, two years earlier, at which they had written the chrysanthemum poems Dont you think its strange?
she remarked to the others.
Since Cousin Chai moved out of the Garden, shes only been to see us a couple of times all together.
And now it seems as though nothing will induce her to come.
Im beginning to wonder if shell ever visit us again.
Tan-chun smiled.
Of course she will!
Its just that at the moment things are a bit difficult Cousin Pans wife is rather a tricky sort of person, Aunt Xue is getting on in years, and with this latest trouble of Pans on top of everything else, Chai really is needed to look after things at home.
Its not like the old days, when she was free to do as she pleased.
As she spoke, they heard a sudden gust of wind outside, and a patter of falling leaves against the paper-covered window.
A faint scent drifted into the room.
They all tried to guess what flower it could be coming from.
Its very like cassia-blossom, suggested Dai-yu.
Tan-chun laughed.
Still a southerner at heart!
Its the ninth month, long past cassia-time.
Dai-yu smiled.
Youre right.
But then I didnt say it was, only very like...
Anyway, Tan, Xiang-yun butted in, you cant talk.
Dont you know the lines -1574 The lotus fragrance drifts for miles, The cassia blooms till autumns end?
In the South, the late-flowering cassia is at its best now.
Its just that youve never seen it.
If you ever have a chance to go to the South, youll be able to see it for yourself.
And what should I be doing in the South?
retorted Tan-chun with a crushing smile.
Anyway, I knew all that ages ago, thanks very much...
The Li sisters grinned at each other.
You never know, Tan, said Dai-yu.
We are "fairy earthlings, fleet of foot", thats what the old proverb says.
Here today, who knows where tomorrow.
Take me, for example.
I was born a southerner, but here I am living in the North.
Xiang-yun clapped her hands.
Well said!
Dais got you there, Tan!
And shes not the only one to have had such an experience.
Look at the rest of us.
Some of us are northerners, born and bred.
Some were born in the South but grew up in the North.
And some grew up in the South and then moved here later.
And yet here we all are together.
Its our fate, you see.
People and places have an affinity.
Their karma brings them together.
They all nodded at Xiang-yuns little discourse, except for Tan-chun who just smiled.
After chatting for a while longer, they got up to go.
Dai-yu walked with them as far as the door, and would have gone out, but they dissuaded her Youve only just started to feel better.
If you come out now, you might catch a chill.
So she stood in the doorway, said a few parting words, and watched the four of them walk out of the courtyard gate.
When they had gone, she went indoors again and sat down.
The birds were returning to their nests the sun was setting.
With Xiang-yuns words about the South still ringing in her ears, Dai-yu drifted into a daydream.
If her parents were still alive.. .
If she still lived in the South, that gentle land of spring flowers and autumn moonlight, of limpid waters and luminous hills... How she would love to be there again, to visit the Twenty Four Bridges in Yangchow and all the famous historical sites of Nanking!
In the South she would have plenty of servants of her own to wait on her.
She could do and speak as she pleased, sail in painted pleasure-boats and ride in perfumed carriages, watch the fields of red apricot-blossom go by, spot the inn-signs through the trees... She would be a young lady in her own right, not an outsider, dependent on others for everything.
However much the Jias did for her, she always felt the need to be on her best behaviour.
What wrong had she done in a previous incarnation to deserve this lonely existence?
Those words written in captivity by the last emperor of Southern Tang -Here, all day long, I bathe my face in tears -how well they expressed her own feelings!
Her soul seemed transported to some distant region.
When Nightingale came in, a single glance sufficed to tell her the cause of Dai-yus absence.
She had been in the room when Xiang-yun was talking, and knew how easily Dai-yu was upset by the slightest reference to the South.
I thought you might feel tired again, Miss, she said, after all your visitors and such a lot of talking, so Ive just sent Snowgoose to the kitchen for a bowl of ham and cabbage broth, cooked with dried shrimps, dried seaweed and bamboo-shoots.
Doesnt that sound good?
I suppose so.
And some congee?
Dai-yu nodded.
Id rather you and Snowgoose made the congee yourselves.
Dont have it done in the kitchen.
No Miss.
You can never be sure how clean things are in the kitchen.
Well cook the congee ourselves.
I asked Snowgoose to tell Cook Liu in the kitchen to take special care with the soup.
Cook Liu said we were not to worry, shed see to it personally and prepare it in her own room.
Her daughter Fivey is going to keep an eye on it while it simmers.
Thats not what I meant, replied Dai-yu.
I wasnt complaining that the kitchen was dirty.
Its just that Ive been imposing on people for so long, and this illness of mine has caused quite enough extra trouble as it is.
With all these special orders for soup and congee, Im afraid I shall make myself unpopular.
Her eyes were a tell-tale red.
Oh Miss!
Youre imagining things!
protested Nightingale.
Youre Her Old Ladyships own granddaughter, the apple of her eye.
A chance to serve you is something people compete for, not grumble about.
Dai-yu nodded thoughtfully.
By the way, she asked, is that Fivey you mentioned the one who used to be friendly with Parfume when she was at Master Baos place?
Thats right.
Didnt I hear that she might be going into service at Master Baos herself?
Yes, she was.
Then she fell ill, and by the time she was better again and ready to start, there was all that trouble over Skybright, and it had to be put off.
Ive always liked the look of her, said Dai-yu.
Meanwhile a serving-woman had arrived with the soup, and Snowgoose went out to fetch it.
Cook Liu says to tell Miss Lin this ones been specially cooked in her room by her Fivey, said the old woman, so she wont need to fuss about its riot being clean.
Snowgoose said she would relay this message and carried the soup into the room.
Dai-yu, however, had already heard their conversation, and told Snowgoose to go back at once and ask the woman to thank Mrs Liu on her return.
Snowgoose did this, and the old woman went on her way.
Snowgoose now laid out Dai-yus bowl and chopsticks on the table.
Would you like some of that dried turnip slaw we brought with us from the South, Miss, if I mix a little sesame-oil and vinegar dressing with it?
If you like.
But dont go to too much trouble.
Snowgoose filled her bowl with congee.
Dai-yu ate half and drank a couple of spoonfuls of the soup.
She put down her spoon, and the two maids cleared away the things and cleaned the little table, which they then removed and replaced with the one that usually stood there.
Dai-yu rinsed her mouth and washed her hands.
Nightingale, have you put some incense on the brazier?
I was just going to, Miss.
You and Snowgoose have some of the soup and con-gee.
Theyre good and wholesome.
Ill see to the incense.
The maids went into the outer room to eat.
Dai-yu put some more incense on the brazier and sat down again.
She was about to pick up a book to read when her attention was caught by the melancholy soughing of the wind through the trees outside.
A long sigh swept from one end of the Garden to the other.
The metal wind-chimes started jangling under the eaves.
Snowgoose was the first to finish her soup, and came in to see if there was anything Dai-yu needed Its turning colder, said Dai-yu.
Have those fur clothes had a proper airing yet - the ones I asked you to take out the other day?
Yes, Miss.
Bring them here, will you?
Id like something warm to put over my shoulders.
Snowgoose went out and returned with a bundle of fur-lined clothes, wrapped in a piece of felt.
She undid the wrapper and held the clothes out for Dai-yu to choose from.
Da.i-yu noticed among the clothes another smaller bundle wrapped in silk.
She reached out a hand to pick it up, and untied the wrapper.
Inside she found a pair of silk handkerchiefs.
She recognized them at once as the ones Bao-yu had secretly sent her during his convalescence!
There were the verses she had written on them!
Even the tear-stains could still be seen!
And next to them in the little bundle were the perfumed sachet she had embroidered for him and half-demolished in a fit of pique, the torn fan-case, and the snipped remains of the silken cord she had made for his Magic Jade.
Nightingale, in sorting out the clothes for airing, must have come across these mementos in one of the chests, and slipped them into this bundle for safety.
Dai-yu seemed to have forgotten Snowgoose and the clothes entirely.
She stood with the handkerchiefs in her hands and stared at them as though entranced.
As she read the verses tears began to stream down her cheeks.
Nightingale came in, to find Snowgoose standing there dumbly, with the felt-wrapped bundle of clothes still held out in front of her, while spread on the little table at Daiyus side were the sachet, fan-case and cord .
Dai-yu was holding two faded handkerchiefs with some writing on them, and was gazing at them in tears.
As the poet says -2496 Tokens of past estrangement Catch the lovers eye Fresh tears fall On tears of days gone by.
Nightingale knew only too well the tender memories attached to each one of those objects.
She thought that sympathy would have little chance of success as a remedy, and decided instead to administer a cheerful rebuke.
Come along now, Miss, whats the sense in looking at things like that?
They belong to the past.
You and Master Bao were children then.
Goodness knows how many silly tiffs you had!
All smiles one minute, crying your hearts out the next.
Thank goodness youre both older and have learned to take life a bit more seriously.
You wouldnt dream of spoiling pretty things like these now would you?
She had meant well.
But her words only reminded Daiyu of the old days with Bao-yu, and released a fresh flood of tears.
Nightingale tried again to cheer her up Come on now, Miss.
Snowgoose is waiting.
Please choose something to wear.
Dai-yu let the handkerchiefs drop.
Nightingale swiftly retrieved them, wrapped them up again with the sachet and the other things, and put them away.
Finally Dai-yu draped one of the fur-lined jackets over her shoulders and walked listlessly to the outer-room.
She sat down, and looking round saw Bao-chais poem and letter still lying on the table.
She picked them up and reread them a couple of times.
The feelings the same, she said to herself with a sigh, even if our circumstances are different.
I should write something in reply.
Ill write four stanzas and set them to an air for the Qin.
Then tomorrow I can make a copy and send it to Chai.
She told Snowgoose to bring in her brush and inkstone, which were on the table outside, and moistening the ink, began to write.
When she had completed four stanzas, she took a Qin Handbook from her shelf and looked through it.
She decided to make a suite out of the two old melodies, Lonely Orchid Pavan and faintly Virtue.
Having done the pointing, she wrote out a copy of the words there and then to send to Bao-chai, and asked Snowgoose to fetch the three-quarter size Qin she had brought from home, which was stored in a trunk.
She tuned the strings and did a few preliminary finger-exercises.
Her natural aptitude compensated for her lack of practice, and it was not long before all that she had learnt as a child came back to her.
After playing for a while, seeing that it was already late in the night, she told Snowgoose to put away the Qin, and went to bed.
And so we must leave her.
One day Bao-yu, after completing his toilet, set off as usual with Tealeaf to go to school.
On their way they encountered Inky, another of his page-boys, who came bounding up to them with a broad grin on his face and announced Good news, Master Bao!
The Preceptors not at school today, and youve all been given the day off!
Are you being serious?
asked Bao-yu.
If you dont believe me, take a look isnt that Master Huan and Young Master Lan on their way back now?
Bao-yu looked and sure enough there were his half-brother and young nephew coming towards him with their contingent of pages, chatting away and giggling, though he could not catch what it was they were saying.
When they saw him, they halted and stood with their arms respectfully at their sides.
Why have you come back from school so soon?
Bao-yu asked them.
The Preceptor is busy today, replied Huan, and says we can all have the day off.
Were to attend as usual tomorrow.
Hearing this, Bao-yu turned about and, having reported the news to Grandmother Jia and his father, returned to Green Delights.
Why are you back?
asked Aroma.
He told her what had happened, and after sitting with her for a minute or two made a move to go out again.
Where are you off to in such a hurry?
she asked.
If youve been given the day off school, that doesnt mean you have to go charging about.
You ought to make it a day of rest.
Bao-yu stopped in his tracks and hung his head.
I know youre right.
But when will I next have a chance to get out and have some fun?
Be a sport...
He said this in such an appealing tone of voice that Aroma relented.
All right, she said with a smile.
Meanwhile lunch had been brought in, and he had to stay and eat it.
He bolted it down, rinsed his mouth and was off.
Fast as a puff of smoke he sped to the Naiads House.
He found Nightingale in the courtyard hanging handkerchiefs out to dry.
Has Miss Lin had her lunch yet?
he asked.
She had half a bowl of congee earlier on, replied Nightingale, but wasnt feeling very hungry.
Shes sleeping at the moment.
Youd better go somewhere else just now, Master Bao, and come back a bit later.
He left reluctantly, not knowing quite where to go.
Suddenly it occurred to him that he had not seen Xi-chun for several days, and he began strolling in the direction of Smartweed Loggia.
When he reached the courtyard and stood by one of the windows, it all seemed very quiet and deserted.
She too, he concluded, was having her nap and not to be disturbed.
He was about to leave when he heard a faint sound coming from inside, too faint to identify.
He stood still and listened again, in the hope of hearing it more clearly.
There it was!
A distinct little tap!
He was still trying to think what it could be, when a voice said Why have you made that move, and not countered there?
It was a game of Go!
But Bao-yu did not have time to recognize the voice of the speaker.
He heard Xi-chun reply Why should I bother?
If you take me there, I shall simply counter here, and if you take me again I shall take you again.
I shall still be one move ahead, and in the end I shall be able to connect.
And what if I take you here?
Aiyo!
exclaimed Xi-chun.
You had an inside counterattack up your sleeve.
Im defenceless.
That other girls voice was so familiar!
But he still couldnt quite place it.
It wasnt one of his cousins, he was sure of that.
And yet Xi-chun was unlikely to be entertaining an outsider.
Lifting the door-curtain very gently aside, he peeped in.
The Go-partner was none other than the nun from Green Bower Hermitage, the Dweller Beyond The Threshold, Adamantina.
He dared not intrude any further.
The girls were totally absorbed in their game, and had neither of them noticed that they were being spied upon.
Bao-yu continued to stand there and watch.
Adamantina leant low over the board and said to Xi-chun Do you want to lose that whole corner?
Of course not!
Its perfectly safe.
All those pieces of yours are "dead"., arent they?
Are you sure?
Go ahead and try.
All right.
Theres my move.
Now lets see what you can do.
A smile crossed Adamantinas face.
She placed her next piece to link up with one she already had on the edge of the board, and then pounced on one of Xi-chuns pieces and annihilated her entire corner.
She laughed Thats called "Pulling Your Boots Off Upside Down"!
Before Xi-chun had time to reply, their unobserved observer, unable to contain himself any longer, burst out laughing.
The two girls were startled out of their wits.
What do you mean by sneaking in here without saying a word?
exclaimed Xi-chun.
What an ill-mannered way to behave, honestly!
How long have you been there?
I came in just as you started to play for that corner.
I had to watch it out.
He bowed to Adamantina.
Greetings, Reverend Sister!
he said with a smile.
Wherefore this rare excursion from the mystic portals of Zen?
What karma brings thee to Mayas dusty realm?
She blushed from ear to ear, said nothing, lowered her head and stared at the Go-board.
Bao-yu could see that he had embarrassed her, and tried to make up for it.
Seriously, he said, with a charming smile, how can common mortals compare with those who, like you, have renounced the world?
In the first place, you have achieved inner peace.
And with that peace comes a deep spirituality.
And with that spirituality a clear insight As he was speaking, Adamantina lifted her eyes a fraction and glanced at him.
She looked down again at once, and a deep flush spread slowly across her face.
Bao-yu realized that she was deliberately trying to ignore him, and sat down awkwardly beside the table.
Xi-chun wanted to continue the game, but after a silence Adamantina said Lets play another day.
Having said this, she stood up, straightened out her dress and sat down again.
Then, turning to Bao-yu, she asked, in a zany tone of voice Where have you come from?
It came as a great relief to Bao-yu that she should speak to him at all, and he was grateful of the chance to remedy his earlier blunder.
But then it suddenly struck him that her question might not be as straightforward as it sounded.
Was this one of her Zen subtleties?
He sat there tongue-tied and red in the face.
Adamantina smiled and turned to talk to Xi-chun.
Xi-chun smiled too.
-347 Cousin Bao, she said, whats so hard about that?
Havent you heard the saying "I come from whence I come"?
To judge by the colour of your face anyone would think you were among strangers.
Dont be shy!
Adamantina seemed to take this banter personally.
She experienced a strange stirring of emotion, and her face grew hot.
She knew she must be blushing again, and became extremely flustered.
Rising to her feet, she said Ive been here a long time.
I think I should be making my way back to the Hermitage.
Xi-chun knew the peculiarity of Adamantinas temperament and did not press her to stay.
She was showing her out, when Adamantina gave a little laugh and said Its so long since Ive been to see you, and the way home is so full of twists and turns.
Im afraid of losing my way.
Pray allow me to be your guide!
volunteered Bao-yu promptly.
I would be greatly honoured, she replied.
Please go ahead, Master Bao.
The two of them said goodbye to Xi-chun and walked out of Smartweed Loggia.
Their winding path led them near the Naiads House, and as they approached they heard strains of music in the air.
Thats a Qin, said Adamantina.
Where could it be coming from, I wonder?
It must be Cousin Lin playing in her room, replied Bao-yu.
Really?
Is that another of her accomplishments?
Ive never heard her mention it.
Bao-yu repeated what Dai-yu had told him.
Shall we go and watch?
he suggested.
You mean listen, I suppose?
said Adamantina.
One listens to the Qin.
One never watches.
There you are!
said Bao-yu with a grin.
I said I was a common sort of mortal.
They had now reached a rockery close to the Naiads House.
They sat down and listened in silence, touched by the poignancy of the melody.
Then a murmuring voice began to chant -3648 Autumn deepens, and with it the winds bitter moan.
My love is far away I mourn alone.
-3648 Gazing in vain For a glimpse of home, I stand at my balcony.
Tears bedew my gown.
-1280 After a brief pause, the chant began again Hills and lakes melt into distant night.
Through my casement shines the clear light Of the moon And the sleepless Milky Way.
My thin robe trembles As wind and dew alight.
-1280 There was another brief pause.
Adamantina said to Baoyu -1344 The first stanza rhymed on "moan", the second on "night".
I wonder how the next will rhyme?
The chant began again from within Fate denies you freedom, holds you bound Inflicting on me too a heavy wound.
In closest harmony Our hearts resound In contemplation of the Ancients Is solace to be found.
That must be the end of the third stanza, said Adamantina.
How tragic it is!
I dont know anything about music, said Bao-yu.
But just from the way she sang, I found it terribly sad.
There was another pause, and they heard Dai-yu tuning her Qin.
That tonic B-flat of hers is too sharp for the scale, commented Adamantina.
The chanting began again -2496 Alas!
this particle of dust, the human soul, Is only playing out -2480 a predetermined role.
-2496 Why grieve to watch The Wheel of Karma turn?
A moonlike purity remains My constant goal.
As she listened, Adamantina turned pale with horror.
Just listen to the way she suddenly uses a sharpened fourth there!
Her intonation is enough to shatter bronze and stone!
Its much too sharp!
What do you mean, too sharp?
asked Bao-yu.
It will never take the strain.
As they were talking, they heard a sudden twang and the tonic string snapped.
Adamantina stood up at once and began to walk away.
Whats the matter?
asked Bao-vu.
You will find out in time.
Please dont say anything about this.
She walked off, leaving Bao-yu in a state of great confusion.
Eventually he too made his way dejectedly home.
And there our narrative leaves him.
Adamantina arrived back at Green Bower Hermitage to find the old lay-sisters waiting for her return.
They closed the gate after her and she sat with them for a while, intoning her Zen breviary.
They had dinner, and after dinner the incense braziers were replenished.
They all bowed before the shrine of the Bodhisattva and the women went off duty, leaving Adamantina alone.
Her couch and back-rest were set out for her.
Sitting cross-legged, she first regulated her breathing and closed her eyes.
Then, cleansed of all wayward thoughts, her mind began to soar towards the realm of higher truth.
She sat in meditation until well after midnight, when she was disturbed by a sudden clattering sound on the roof.
Afraid there might be burglars about, she rose from her couch and went into the front hall.
Looking out, all she could see were long clouds that stretched across the sky, and the moon shining through a watery haze.
It was a mild night, and she stayed there for a while, leaning over the balustrade.
Suddenly two cats started wailing to each other on the roof above her head.
The words Bao-yu had spoken to her that afternoon came flashing into her mind.
She felt an involuntary racing of the heart, her ears burned.
Making a determined effort to compose herself, she went back into her meditation room and sat down again on her couch.
Her efforts were in vain.
Something was overpowering her.
She felt ten thousand horses stampeding through her head.
The couch itself seemed to start swaying, and her body seemed to leave the Hermitage.
She was surrounded by handsome young noblemen, all asking for her hand in marriage.
There were matchmakers hustling her towards a bridal carriage against her will.
Then the scene changed again.
Now she was being kidnapped.
A gang of ruffians with swords and clubs was threatening her, mauling her.
She started screaming for help.
By now the old nuns and lay-sisters were wide awake, and had come hurrying into the hall with candles to discover the cause of the disturbance.
They found her lying on the ground, with her arms outstretched, frothing at the mouth.
She was woken from this apparent coma, only to fix her eyes into a rigid stare and cry out, her cheeks burning a fierce crimson Buddha is my Protector!
Dont touch me, you ruffians!
The women were too scared to do anything but call out Wake up!
Wake up!
Were here now!
I want to go home!
replied Adamantina.
Wholl be my friend and take me home?
But this is your home!
While the others stayed talking to her, one of the nuns was sent to pray at the shrine of the Goddess of Mercy.
She shook the bamboo-box of tallies kept by the altar, and on consulting the relevant passage in the divination-book read that the Yin spirit of the south-west corner had been offended.
Of course!
exclaimed one of the others, when she reported back.
The south-west corner of the Garden was originally uninhabited, so it would be sure to contain a high concentration of Yin essence.
Some busied themselves making soup, others brought water.
One of the nuns, who had come with Adaniantina from the South and was for that reason closer and more devoted to her than the others, sat next to her on the couch and put her arms protectively round her.
Adamantina turned her head Whos that?
Its only me.
Adamantina looked at her curiously for a minute.
Oh it really is!
she cried, and flung her arms round the nun, sobbing hysterically.
Oh Mother, save me, or Im going to die!
The nun called out to her in an attempt to bring her to her senses, and began to massage her gently.
The old women brought in tea, and they sat up together till dawn when finally Adamantina dozed off.
The nun sent for the doctor, and several doctors came and took her pulses.
There were as many differing diagnoses as there were doctors.
Excessive worry damaging the spleen phlogistic intrusion into the haematic system offence caused to an evil spirit a combination of internal and external chill.
None of these seemed conclusive.
Finally a doctor came whose first question after reading her pulses was -294 Did the young lady practise meditation?
The women informed him that it was a regular thing with her.
-294 And did this illness develop quite suddenly last night?
Yes, it did.
Indubitably a case of heat in the cardiac orb affording entrance to a vagrant evil spirit.
Will she be all right?
Luckily the meditation does not seem to have been too far advanced and the spirit was therefore not able to penetrate too deeply.
She will most probably recover.
He wrote out a prescription for the Dephlogistication of the Cardiac Orb, after one dose of which Adamantina began to show signs of improvement.
News of her attack soon spread, and it became a sublect of gossip for the lads in town.
All that chastity and religion was bound to be too much for a girl of her age.
Especially such an attractive, lively thing...
Sooner or later shell get soft on some lucky fellow and run away.
A few days later Adamantina was slightly better.
But her concentration seemed to have gone and she often found herself drifting off into a dreamlike state.
The news did not reach Xi-chun for a few days.
She was sitting in her room when Landscape came hurrying in.
Miss, have you heard whats happened to Sister Adamantina?
No - what is it?
I heard Miss Xing and Mrs Zhu talking about it yesterday.
Remember that day she was here playing Go?
Apparently that very night she had a fit.
She was talking about bandits trying to carry her away and all sorts of other strange things.
She still hasnt quite recovered.
Dont you think its peculiar?
Xi-chun thought silently to herself So for all her fastidious purity, Addies worldly karma is still not complete.
If only I had been born into a different family!
If only I were free to become a nun!
I would never be tempted by evil spirits.
I know I would be able to subdue every unholy thought and achieve total detachment from the world and all its entanglements.
With this thought she experienced a sudden sense of illumination, which she tried to express in the following gtha Since at first there was no space, Things can have no proper place.
From Void all comes To Void must all return.
She told a maid to light some incense, and meditated for a while.
Then she took down her Go Handbook and began looking through it, studying the tactics 6f such famous Go Masters of old as Kong Rong and Wang Ji-xin.
There was Crab Wrapped in Lotus Leaves, and Golden Oriole Strikes Hare but she found neither of these very impressive, and Corner Kill in Thirty Six Moves she found too hard to understand and harder still to remember.
It was Dragon-chain of Ten Galloping Horses that really caught her fancy.
She was still working it out, when she heard someone come into the courtyard and call out Landscape!
But to know who this visitor was, you must turn to the next chapter.
CHAPTER 88 Bao-yu gratifies his grandmother by praising a fatherless child Cousin Zhen rectifies family discipline by chastising two unruly servants Xi-chun was puzzling over her Go Handbook when she heard someone calling outside Landscape!
She recognized the voice as Faithfuls.
Landscape went out into the courtyard, and reappeared with Faithful, followed by a younger maid carrying a small parcel wrapped in yellow silk.
Whats that?
asked Xi-chun, her curiosity aroused.
Faithful explained.
Next year is Her Old Ladyships eighty-first birthday, and since eighty-one is nine times nine, she has pledged herself to hold a nine-day mass, and to have three thousand six hundred and fifty-one copies made of the Sutra of the Immaculate Diamond.
That has all been handed out to copyists.
But there is a popular saying "If the Diamond Sutra is the outer shell of the magic, its core is the Sutra of the Heart of Wisdom."
In other words, to enhance ones merit, one should slip in a Heart Sutra too.
So now Her Old Ladyship wants copies of that as well, and because of its greater importance as scripture and its connection with Our Lady of Mercy, she wants three hundred and sixty-five copies to be done by the young ladies and young mistresses of the family.
Apart from Mrs Lian, whos too busy running the household, and cant write anyway, all the ladies that can write at all are being given a share in this act of piety and devotion, even Mrs Zhen and Mr Zhens other ladies in the Eastern Mansion.
Of course, everyone in the inner family will be expected to take part.
Xi-chun nodded.
Sutra-copying is one thing I can do with conviction.
Leave it there, will you?
Would you like some tea?
Faithful deposited the little package on the table, and sat down with Xi-chun, while Landscape poured her a cup of tea.
Will you be doing some copying too?
asked Xi-chun with a smile.
Dont tease, Miss!
answered Faithful.
Three or four years ago I might have, perhaps.
But Im so out of practice now.
When did you last see me with a brush in my hand?
But think of the merit youd acquire.
Ive already seen to that, replied Faithful.
Every day, after settling Her Old Ladyship down to sleep, Ive been saying Lord Buddhas name and counting my "Buddha Rice".
Ive been collecting the rice-grains for more than three years and putting them by for just such an occasion as this, to dedicate them to Buddha and add my contribution, my little act of charity and devotion, to Her Old Ladyships.
It sounds as if when Lady Jia becomes Our Lady of Mercy, said Xi-chun, youll have to be her inseparable companion, the Dragon Kings daughter!
Oh no, Miss!
protested Faithful.
Thats too grand for me.
It is true though, I could never serve anyone but Her Old Ladyship.
I must be bound to her by some karma from a past life.
With these words Faithful rose to leave, bidding the younger maid untie the little parcel, and exhibiting its contents to Xi-chun.
This roll of plain paper is to be used for the sutra.
And while you write, she went on, handing her a bundle of Tibetan incense-sticks, you are to light one of these.
Xi-chun nodded, and Faithful returned with the other maid to Grandmother Jias apartment, where she reported on her errand and stood watching the game of backgammon that was in progress between the old lady and Li Wan.
Li Wan with her next throw removed several of Grandmother Jias pins to the bar, and Faithful had difficulty in keeping.
a straight face.
They were presently distracted from their game by the arrival of Bao-yu, carrying in each hand a little bamboo-splint cage containing crickets.
I heard you werent sleeping very well, Grannie, he said, so I brought you these to help you relax.
Grandmother Jia laughed.
You naughty boy!
Just because your fathers not at home...
When he protested his innocence, Grandmother J ia asked Why arent you at school then?
What are you up to with those things anyway?
They werent my idea, Grannie, explained Bao-yu.
What happened was that a day or two ago Huan and Lan each had a couplet to complete in class, and as Huan got stuck, I whispered something to help him out.
When he recited it, the Preceptor was impressed and praised him highly for it.
Huan bought me the crickets as a thank-you present.
I should like to give them to you.
Hasnt that boy been doing any work, for heavens sake!
exclaimed Grandmother Jia.
Surely he can manage a couplet on his own?
If not, then he deserves a good spanking from the Preceptor.
It might teach him a thing or two.
As for you, have you forgotten the state you got into when your father was at home and asked you for a few lines of verse?
Dont you go getting too full of yourself now.
What a little rascal that Huan is!
To go begging for help, and then look around for a nice present to butter you up with!
He certainly seems precocious enough when it comes to cheating - he should be ashamed of himself!
Heaven alone knows how hell turn out when he grows up... A ripple of laughter spread through the room.
But tell me about young Lan, went on Grandmother Jia.
How did he manage?
As the youngest, strictly speaking he should have been helped by...... Bao-yu detected the note of sarcasm in her voice and laughed.
Oh no!
He didnt need any help.
He could manage on his own.
I dont believe you!
said Grandmother Jia.
It was you at your tricks again, Ill be bound.
Hark at you!
A camel among sheep!
Just because you re so grown-up now, and so good at your compositions... Bao-yu smiled.
No, seriously, Lan managed perfectly well on his own.
The Preceptor was very pleased and said he had a brilliant future ahead of him.
If you dont believe me, Grannie, send for him and test him yourself.
If that is the truth, said Grandmother Jia, then I am overjoyed to hear it..
But I have a feeling that you are making it all up.
If he really can do such things at his age, he may well distinguish himself when he grows up.
She looked at Li Wan, and thought of Lans father Jia Zhu.
What a consolation that would be for your elder brothers death, she went on, addressing Bao-yu again.
And what a well-earned reward for all his mothers efforts in bringing him up!
In time he will be a pillar of support to the family, as his father would have been!
The thought brought tears to her eyes.
Li Wan was also moved, but seeing the old lady becoming somewhat emotional, she checked her own tears and said with a brave smile Whatever good fortune we may enjoy, Grannie, we owe it all to you.
I only pray that Lan will live up to your expectations and bring fortune to the whole family.
His progress should be a source of joy.
Please dont go upsetting yourself.
She turned to Bao-yu.
-1152 And please dont you go giving him exaggerated ideas of his achievements, Bao.
He is only a child, remember.
He may take you seriously and not realize that you are only trying to encourage him and then he will become proud and conceited and never do well.
Well said, my dear, commented Grandmother Jia.
But remember too that he is still very young and should not be driven too hard.
Children only have a certain amount of strength.
Push them too soon and you can ruin them.
Then they may never be able to study properly, and all your efforts will have been in vain.
Li Wan could contain herself no longer and burst into floods of tears.
As she was hurriedly drying her eyes, Jia Huan and Jia Lan came into the room to pay their evening respects to Grandmother Jia.
Lan then greeted his mother and returned to stand respectfully at his great-grandmothers side.
I have just been hearing from your uncle Bao, said Grandmother Jia, how well you did with your couplet, and what praises you won from the Preceptor.
Lan smiled modestly.
Faithful now came over to say that dinner was ready.
I want to invite Mrs Xue, said Grandmother Jia, and Amber promptly sent a maid over to Lady Wangs apartment.
Bao-yu and Jia Huan withdrew from the room, while Li Wans maid Candida and the younger maids came forward to clear away the backgammon pieces.
Li Wan stayed to wait on Grandmother Jia, and Jia Lan stood at his mothers side.
The two of you can stay to dinner with me, said Grandmother Jia.
Yes Grandmother, replied Li Wan.
A minute or two later dinner was brought in, and the maid returned from Lady Wangs apartment with the following message Her Ladyship says that Mrs Xue will not be able to come.
She was only over on a short visit and went home after lunch.
-640 - Grandmother Jia told Jia Lan to occupy the seat next to her.
Our narrative omits any further details of that evenings meal.
After dinner, when she had washed her hands and rinsed her mouth, Grandmother Jia reclined on her couch and chatted idly with her granddaughter-in-law and great-grandson.
A junior maid came in and asked Amber to say that Mr Zhen who, in the temporary absence of Jia Zheng and Jia Lian, had that day been supervising business at Rong-guo House was waiting outside to pay his evening respects.
Tell him that I have been informed, said Grandmother Jia, but that he need not bother to come in.
He can go home and rest.
He must be tired after the days work.
The maid relayed this to the old women outside, Cousin Zhen was informed, an4 returned to Ning-guo House.
The following day he came over again to Rong-guo House, to see to the days business.
After the pages on the gate had produced a series of miscellaneous matters for his attention, it was reported by another page that the farm-bailiff had arrived with the seasonal produce.
Cousin Zhen asked to see the inventory, which was presented to him by the page, and he proceeded to read through the various items, mostly fresh fruit, with some game and vegetables.
Who usually looks after this department?
asked Cousin Zhen.
Zhou Rui, sir.
Zhou Rui was summoned and Cousin Zhen instructed him Check through all the items on this list and have them delivered.
Have a copy made for my reference.
And tell the kitchen to cook some extra dishes when they are preparing lunch for the servants.
The bailiff is to have something to eat before he goes, and the usual tip.
Yes sir.
Zhou Rui told the servants to carry the goods into Xi-fengs courtyard, and gave instructions for them to be checked against the inventory.
Then he went off, only to reappear shortly afterwards before Cousin Zhen Excuse me sir, have you checked the entries yet?
Do you think I have time to do that?
replied Cousin Zhen impatiently.
I have given you the list and leave the matter entirely in your hands.
I have checked all the items through to the best of my ability sir, and everything seems in order.
But perhaps you would like to send for the bailiff, as you have a copy yourself, to make sure the list is genuine.
What a lot of fuss over a bit of fruit!
exclaimed Cousin Zhen.
Its really not that important.
I take your word for it.
At this moment Bao Er came into the room and kotowed to Cousin Zhen.
This Bao Er, it may be remembered, was the servant who had in the past been useful to both Cousin Zhen and Jia Lian.
On this occasion he had come over for the day to assist Cousin Zhen.
I beg to be released, sir, he said, and put back on external duties.
What is the meaning of this?
asked Cousin Zhen, addressing Bao Er and Zhou Rui simultaneously.
Whats the point of my being here if no one listens to my opinion?
replied Bao Er.
Who asked for your opinion?
said Cousin Zhen brusquely.
Im tired of spying for other people!
muttered Bao Er to himself.
Sir, put in Zhou Rui promptly, I have been in charge of farm rents and income here for years, and on average I should say around four hundred thousand taels worth passes through my hands each year, and I have never had a word of complaint from the Master or their Ladyships or the young mistresses about anything, let alone such a small matter as this.
According to him, we are supposed to have made off with the familys entire property and estates!
It looks as if Bao Er has started some sort of quarrel, thought Cousin Zhen to himself.
Better get rid of him.
Out of my sight!
he barked.
Then turning from Bao Er to Zhou Rui That is all.
Carry on with your work.
The two servants left.
Not long afterwards Cousin Zhen was resting in the study when he heard the most terrific din break out in the direction of the main gate.
He sent a servant to inquire, who came back to report that a fight had started between Bao Er and an adopted son of Zhou Ruis.
Who is this adopted son?
asked Cousin Zhen.
He San is his name, sir, replied the servant.
A worthless fellow who spends most of his time drinking and causing trouble.
He sometimes comes round here and hangs about in the porters lodge.
Apparently he got involved in the argument between Bao Er and Zhou Rui.
This is the limit!
exclaimed Cousin Zhen.
Have Bao Er and this He San character bound immediately!
What about Zhou Rui?
He disappeared when the fighting started, sir.
Find him at once!
This is preposterous!
Yes, sir!
In the midst of this commotion, Jia Lian returned and Cousin Zhen told him what had happened in his absence.
What next!
cried Lian.
He sent an extra servant to help apprehend Zhou Rui, who soon realized that escape was impossible, gave himself up and was led before the masters.
Tie him up as well!
ordered Cousin Zhen, and Jia Lian added, addressing himself principally to Zhou Rui Mr Zhen settled your petty differences once and for all.
Why go out and start fighting all over again?
And as if that wasnt bad enough, you have to drag in this brat of yours, He San!
And when you should have been bringing them to heel, you disappear and leave them to it!
He dealt Zhou Rui a few hefty kicks.
Its no good punishing only him, said Cousin Zhen grimly, and ordered his men to give Bao Er and He San fifty lashes each and send them packing.
This done, he and Jia Lian sat down to discuss family business.
In the servants quarters this incident became the subject of many a private exchange of opinions.
Some saw it as an attempt on Cousin Zhens part to cover up for incompetence others said he was just inept at handling people while others saw it as yet another instance of his unpleasant character.
Wasnt it he who recommended Bao Er to Mr Lian in that sordid business with the You sisters?
Whats probably happened is that Bao Ers wife wont oblige Mr Zhen as she did Mr Lian, so now hes taken it out on the husband...
There were many differing interpretations.
Meanwhile the Jia clan lost no time in turning Jia Zhengs promotion at the Ministry of Works to their financial advantage.
Jia Yun was certainly not going to be left out, but went around promising work to contractors and negotiating percentages for himself, and having bought a quantity of fashionable embroideries, made his way to the apartment of his erstwhile patroness.
Xi-feng, who had just learnt from one of her maids that Mr Zhen and Mr Lian were in a temper and beating the servants, was on the point of sending someone to discover the details when she saw Jia Lian himself walk in, and was able to hear the full story from him.
It may all have been over a trifle, she commented, but we must put a stop to such behaviour at all costs.
If they think they can get away with it now, when the family fortunes are supposed to be flourishing, what is going to happen when the younger generation takes over?
Theyll have a mutiny on their hands.
I remember a year or so ago witnessing the most appalling scene at Ning-guo House - Big Jiao sprawled all over the steps, blind drunk and swearing sixteen to the dozen.
None of us was spared.
I dont care if he has rendered distinguished services in the past.
Servants should know their place, and show a proper sense of respect.
The trouble with Cousin Zhens wife - please dont misunderstand me - is that she is much too unsuspecting and lets her staff get away with anything.
This Bao Er of theirs - or whatever his name is - is typical.
Come to think of it, hasnt he been rather useful to you and Zhen in the past?
Arent you being a bit ungrateful to start flogging him now?
Stung to the quick, Jia Lian sheepishly tried to change the subject.
Presently he remembered a pressing engagement and left.
Crimson now came in to report the arrival of Jia Yun.
I wonder what hes after this time?
mused Xi-feng to herself.
Then aloud to Crimson Youd better show him in.
Crimson went out.
She looked Jia Yun in the face and gave him a cheeky smile.
He swift on the uptake as ever advanced towards her and said Did you tell Mrs Lian that I was here, Miss Crimson?
She blushed.
I suppose you have a lot of important business, Mr Yun... On the contrary, I only wish I had had cause to come here and trouble you more often, Miss Crimson...
I remember last year when you were employed at Uncle Baos He was about to say more but Crimson, who was afraid someone might interrupt them, asked in haste Did you ever get my handkerchief?
Her words provoked Jia Yun to such a pitch of excitement that he was ready to burst.
But before he could say a word a maid came out from Xi-fengs room, and he and Crimson were obliged to go in together at once.
They walked side by side, close enough for him to whisper When I leave, be sure to see me out.
Ive something to tell you that might amuse you... She blushed fiercely and flashed her eyes at him without a word.
Going ahead to inform Xi-feng of his approach, she returned to usher him in, lifting the door-curtain and beckoning to him, while announcing in her most formal tone of voice Madam will be pleased to see you now, sir.
With a smile Jia Yun advanced with her into the room and greeted Xi-feng.
He conveyed his mothers regards, which Xi-feng returned politely before asking And what brings you here today?
Jia Yun embarked upon his speech Aunties great kindness to me in the past has been ever present in my mind and a source of endless gratification.
I have been awaiting an opportunity to present a token of my esteem and have only held back for fear that you might consider such a gesture inappropriate.
The forthcoming Double Ninth Festival finally seemed sufficient justification for my purchasing a little something which, though I know you have more than enough of everything here already, I humbly pray you to do me the honour of accepting as an earnest of my humble devotion.
Xi-feng laughed.
Come on.
Cut the cackle.
Whats it all about?
Sit down and tell me.
Jia Yun took a perch and deposited his offering gingerly with both hands on the surface of an adjacent table.
I know youre pretty hard up, Xi-feng went on, so why go spending money like this?
I have no need of such things and dont expect them.
Come on now, tell me what you have really come for.
Truly for no other reason than my deep and hitherto unexpressed sense of gratitude...
There was however by now a trace of a smile.
Come off it, said Xi-feng.
I am perfectly familiar with the state of your finances.
Dont expect me to go taking things from you for nothing.
If you want me to accept your present then tell me the truth.
If you carry on beating about the bush like this, I shall certainly not accept anything from you.
Jia Yun was forced to come to the point.
He rose to his feet and donned his most obsequious smile.
I did entertain one modest and I trust not altogether unreasonable hope.
It reached my ears a few days ago that Sir Zheng had been given the overall supervision of mausoleum construction at the Ministry, and as I have one or two friends with considerable experience in that line -extremely competent people, I might add - I would just like to ask if it would be at all possible for you to put in a word for them with Sir Zheng.
If a job or two were to come their way I should be indebted to you for eternity.
And need I add that my own services are always at your disposal should anything materialize in the way of work here at the mansion.
In most matters I know I have a certain amount of influence, replied Xi-feng.
But when it comes to this sort of thing, the major contracts are completely in the pockets of the President and other senior officials, while the smaller jobs are handed out by the clerks and runners.
No one else gets so much as a look in, Im afraid.
Our own people can only work for Sir Zheng as his personal staff.
Even your uncle Lian only goes in when theres something directly connected with the family.
He has nothing to do with official business.
At home, as soon as things are patched up in one place they break out in another - even Mr Zhen cant keep order properly.
A junior like you would never be able to cope.
No, Im afraid whatever jobs there might have been at the Ministry have nearly all gone.
People are desperate for work.
Surely theres something you can turn your hand to at home, to keep body and soul together?
Im being serious.
Go home and think it over.
As for your gratitude, consider it expressed.
And take these things back to wherever they came from.
While she was speaking, a group of nannies had come into the room with little Qiao-jie, dressed in a colourfully embroidered smock and clutching an armful of toys.
She went running over to her mother, laughing and prattling away, and J ia Yun stood up once more and swiftly transferred his attentions and unctuous smiles from Xi-feng to her daughter.
So this is my respected cousin?
Now is there any little present you would like me to get you, dearie?
A loud Waaah!
burst from Qiao-jies lips and Jia Yun retreated hastily.
There, there, my darling!
Come here!
Xi-feng held the child closely to her.
This is your cousin Yun.
Dont be shy.
Jia Yun tried again.
What a sweet little girl!
Such a pretty face promises a lifetime of happiness.
Qiao-jie turned her little head to take another peep at him and immediately burst out crying again.
Jia Yun sensed that he was no longer welcome and rose to leave.
Dont forget your things, insisted Xi-feng.
Oh please, Aunt Feng!
Do me this one favour...
If you dont take them yourself, I shall send someone after you with them.
Honestly Yun, this is not the way to go about things.
You are not a stranger here.
If something crops up I will certainly let you know.
Until then there i nothing I can do, and there is nothing to be gained by wasting your time and money like this.
Jia Yun could see that she was not going to relent.
His face flushed as he took his leave.
I shall nevertheless continue to search for an acceptable present.
Crimson, carry these things to the hall for Mr Yun, said Xi-feng curtly, and see him out.
People are right, thought Yun to himself on his way out.
Shes a real tyrant!
Wont budge an inch!
Hard as nails!
Serves her right if she cant produce an heir.
That little girl of hers gave me a queer feeling too... She seemed to take against me, almost as if we had some feud from a past life.
What damnable luck!
All that work for nothing!
His rebuff came as a disappointment to Crimson too, who picked up the parcel and followed him out.
He took it from her and, when no one was looking, undid the wrapping, took out a couple of pieces of embroidery and gave them to her.
At first she would not accept them and protested under her breath You shouldnt, Mr Yun.
Think how dreadful it would look for both of us if Mrs Lian found out.
Dont be silly.
Keep them.
Shell never know.
If you dont, Ill take it as a personal insult.
Crimson smiled vainly and took them from him.
If you insist.
But I dont want them.
I really dont know what to think...
Her face was burning again.
Jia Yun laughed, and said Its the thought that counts... By now they had reached the inner gate and Jia Yun concealed the remaining gifts inside his gown while Crimson urged him on his way.
You must go now, she said.
If ever you want anything here, contact me.
Now that Im in service with Mrs Lian, you can approach me directly.
Yun shook his head bitterly.
Shes too much of a tyrant.
I shant be coming back in a hurry.
Dont forget what I said just now though.
If I do have a chance to see you again, Ive more to tell you.
Crimson blushed from ear to ear.
Youd really better go now.
Come again as often as you like.
If youve become distant from Mrs Lian, youve only yourself to blame.
All right, I understand.
Jia Yun went on his way and Crimson stood in the gateway, - following him into the distance with a thoughtful gaze.
Then she turned and werit inside again.
Xi-feng meanwhile was giving instructions for her dinner, and asked the maids if they had cooked her congee.
They hurried off to inquire, and returned after a short while to report that the congee was ready.
I should like a couple of dishes of those pickled vegetables that have just come up from the South, to go with it,, Xi-feng said.
Autumn took charge of this and detailed the other maids to proceed with service.
Patience came in and said with a smile Theres something I forgot to mention earlier, maam.
At midday, while you were over at Her Old Ladyships, one of the prioresss women from Water-moon Priory came to see you, to ask for a couple of jars of southern pickle and for an advance of a few months allowance.
The prioress has been in poor health, she told me.
I asked what the matter was, and she said it had all started four or five days ago.
She had been having trouble with some of the Buddhist and Taoist novices at the Priory, who despite several warnings kept leaving their lights on at night.
Then one night she noticed the lamps still burning at midnight, and called to them several times.
Hearing n6 reply and thinking that they must have fallen asleep with their lights on, she went herself to put them out.
When she came back to her room, the strangest thing happened she saw a man and a woman sitting together on the kang, and when she asked them who they were, had a noose slipped round her neck by way of reply.
Her cries for help aroused the other sisters, who lit their lamps and came hurrying to the scene to find her prostrate on the floor and foaming at the mouth.
Thank heavens they managed to bring her round.
She still cannot eat proper meals, which is why she thought of asking for some pickles.
Since you were not in I felt I could hardly give her any on my own authority, so I explained where you were, said that I would mention it to you later, and sent her back to the Priory.
I should have forgotten all about it if I hadnt heard you asking for pickles just now yourself.
Xi-feng stared thoughtfully for a moment.
Theres no shortage of pickles, she said at last.
Send her some by all means.
You can see Mr Qin in a day or two about the money.
As she was speaking, Crimson came in to report the arrival of a messenger from Jia Lian.
Business had detained him out of town, and he would not be back that night.
This had received a perfunctory acknowledgement from Xi-feng, when suddenly there was a burst of crying from the back of the house and one of the junior maids came running breathlessly into the courtyard.
Patience was already there and now several of the other maids gathered round and began whispering among themselves.
Whats going on out there.?
asked Xi-feng.
One of the maids has had a bit of a fright, replied Patience.
She says shes seen a ghost or something...
Which maid?
asked Xi-feng sharply.
The maid in question entered the room.
Whats all this nonsense about ghosts?
asked Xi-feng.
I was out at the back just now, maam, replied the maid, asking one of the women for more charcoal to put on the braziers, when I heard this eerie noise coming from that small empty building.
At first I thought it was just a cat chasing a mouse, but then I .heard it go whee like somebody sighing.
I was very frightened and came running back.
Stupid creature!
snapped Xi-feng.
I wont have people talking such superstitious nonsense in my presence!
Ive never believed in such things.
Go on - get out of my sight!
The maid fled.
Xi-feng sent for Sunshine and checked through the days remaining accounts.
It was nearly nine o clock by the time they finished.
She and the others sat for a while chatting, and then she sent the servants off duty for the night and went to bed herself.
Just before eleven oclock she was lying in bed still half-asleep, when suddenly her flesh begin to creep and she awoke with.
a start.
She lay there trembling in ever-increasing terror until she could bear it no longer, and called Patience and Autumn to come over and keep her com p any.
Neither of them could understand the strange state slie was in.
Autumn had originally been rather hostile to Xi-feng, but she had fallen from favour with Jia Lian because of the part she played in the persecution of You Er-jie and had subsequently been drawn into Xi-fengs camp, though her loyalty remained a matter of convenience and did not compare with the devotion of Patience.
On this occasion, seeing her mistress in such a troubled state, she stood dutifully by the bedside and served her with tea.
Xi-feng took a sip and said Thank you.
You can go back to sleep now.
I shall be quite all right with Patience here.
But Autumn was eager to please, and protested Surely maam, if you cant get to sleep, it would be best if we took it in turns to sit up with you?
Xi-feng had already dozed off.
The maids heard a distant cockcrow and, seeing that Xi-feng was now fast asleep, both lay down fully dressed until daybreak, when they rose and busily began making preparations for her morning toilet.
When she awoke, Xi-fengs mind was still haunted by the terrors of the night.
Despite her shaky state, her habitual determination to keep going at all costs prevailed, and with a great effort she struggled up.
She was sitting rapt in thought when she heard a maid in the courtyard calling Is Patience in?
Patience called out in reply, and the maid lifted the door-curtain and came in.
It turned out that she had been sent by Lady Wang to summon Jia Lian.
Theres a messenger from the yamen on urgent business, she said, and as the Master has just gone out, Her Ladyship sent me to ask for Mr Lian to come over.
Xi-feng caught her breath in alarm.
To ascertain the nature of this urgent business, please turn to the next chapter.
CHAPTER 89 Our hero sees the handiwork of a departed love, and is moved to write an ode Frowner falls prey to hysterical fear and resolves to starve to death -347 We have seen in the last chapter how Xi-feng forced herself to get up, and was sitting brooding in her apartment, when suddenly a maid arrived with news of some fresh crisis.
-384 What has happened?
she asked in alarm.
I dont know, maam, replied the maid.
A messenger has come from the Ministry for the Master.
One of the pages on the inner gate reported to Her Ladyship, and Her Ladyship sent me here to ask for Mr Lian.
Xi-feng became slightly calmer when she realized that it was only a Ministry affair.
Will you tell Her Ladyship, she said, that Mr Lian was away last night on business and has not yet returned.
She had better send round for Mr Zhen at the other mansion.
Yes ma am.
The maid departed.
Presently Cousin Zhen came over to Rong-guo House to receive the messenger from the Ministry.
Having ascertained the facts, he went in to report to Lady Wang.
The messenger says that yesterday the President of the Yellow River Conservancy Board presented a memorial, describing the bursting of dykes throughout Honan Province and the flooding of several prefectures, departments and districts.
They are allocating funds for reconstruction of city walls.
This is going to mean a lot of extra administrative work for the senior officials at the Ministry, and they wished to inform Sir Zheng at once.
Having said this, Cousin Zhen withdrew.
Jia Zheng was informed directly upon his return, and for most of the winter he was kept very busy and spent nearly all of his time at the Ministry.
Although for Bao-yu this meant a period of less intensive studying, fear of being detected by his father still caused him to keep up his attendance at school, and inhibited him from spending much time with Dai-yu.
One morning in the middle of the tenth month, Bao-yu rose and.
prepared to set off as usual for school.
The weather had suddenly turned chilly, and he saw Aroma come in with a bundle of winter clothes.
Its very cold today, she said.
Youll need to wrap up well.
She chose a garment for him to wear and wrapped up another, which she entrusted to one of the younger maids.
The maid went out and gave it to Tealeaf, saying As its so cold today, you are to have this ready in case Master Bao wants to change.
Tealeaf acknowledged these instructions, and followed Bao-yu to school with the felt-wrapped bundle in his arms.
On arrival, Bao-yu sat down to work.
He was soon distracted from his books by the sound of the paper casements vibrating in the wind.
The weather seems to have taken a turn for the worse, observed the Preceptor, opening a touch-hole in one of the windows and looking out.
A great bank of dark clouds in the north-west was surging steadily across the sky.
Tealeaf came into the classroom.
Its getting colder, Master Bao.
You had better put something warmer on.
Bao-yu nodded, and Tealeaf walked across the room.
The sight of the garment he was carrying had a most curious effect on Bao-yu, who gazed at it as if in a trance.
The other boys watched with fascination.
Why did you have to bring this?
asked Bao-yu.
Who gave it to you?
He had recognized it at once as the Peacock Gold snow-cape, the one that Skybright had so bravely mended for him during her last illness.
The maids wrapped it up and told me to bring it, replied Tealeaf.
Well, Im not feeling particularly cold,said Bao-yu.
I dont think Ill wear it just now.
You may as well wrap it up again.
The Preceptor supposed that Bao-yu was reluctant to spoil so fine a garment, and noted with gratification this evidence of thrift.
Please put it on, Master Bao!
pleaded Tealeaf.
For my sake!
You know Ill get the blame if you catch a cold.
With extreme reluctance Bao-yu put it on, sat down again and stared glumly at his books.
The Preceptor presumed that he was concentrating once more on his studies and gave the incident no further thought.
That afternoon, when the days lessons were over, Baoyu said that he felt unwell and asked to be excused from school the next day.
Dai-ru had, of late, come to view his students in a more lenient light, more as compani9ns with whom to while away his old age.
His own health was poor, and he was glad to lessen his burden of work by the judicious dispensation of sick-leave.
Besides, he knew that Sir Zheng had more important matters on his mind, and that Grandmother Jia always indulged her favourite grandson.
With a nod he indicated to Bao-yu that his request was granted.
Bao-yu went straight home.
After calling briefly on his mother and grandmother, neither of whom questioned his plea of illness, he returned to the Garden.
He was not at all his usual smiling talkative self, in fact he hardly said a word to Aroma and the others, but lay down dressed as he was on the kang.
Dinners ready, said Aroma.
Do you want it now, or will you wait till later?
Bao-yu I wont have anything to eat.
Im not feeling well.
You just have yours.
Aroma Well, you might at least take off that lovely cape.
Youll crumple it and ruin it.
Bao-yu I want to keep it on.
Aroma Its not just the cape that Im worried about.
Look how carefully its been darned.
Youll spoil the stitching.
This touched Bao-yu to the quick.
He heaved a deep sigh.
Oh all right!
Put it away then.
Wrap it up carefully.
I shall never wear it again.
He stood up to take it off.
Aroma came over to take it from him, but he had already begun to fold it himself Why are you being so industrious today?
she asked in surprise.
He made no reply but went on folding.
Wheres the wrapper?
he asked when he had finished.
Musk handed it to him, and as he carefully wrapped the cape, she turned to give Aroma a wink.
Bao-yu took no notice of them but sat down, looking thoroughly dejected.
The clock on the shelf chimed, and he glanced down at his watch.
It was already half-past five.
Shortly afterwards a junior maid came in to light the lamps.
If you wont have a proper meal, at least have a little hot congee, pleaded Aroma.
If you go to bed on an empty stomach you could easily catch a fever.
And then think of all the trouble well have.
He shook his head.
Im not hungry.
Id only feel worse if I tried to force something down.
Well in that case, said Aroma, you should at least have an early night.
She and Musk made his bed and Bao-yu lay down.
He tossed and turned, but found it quite impossible to get to sleep.
Finally, just before dawn, he dozed off, only to awake again half an hour later.
Aroma and Musk were already up and about.
I heard you tossing and turning till the early hours, said Aroma.
I didnt dare disturb you.
Then I fell asleep myself.
Did you manage to sleep in the end?
A bit.
But I woke up again almost at once.
-347 Have you got a pain anywhere?
No.
I just feel depressed.
Will you be going to school today?
No.
I asked for the day off yesterday.
I thought I might go for a walk in the Garden to try and throw off this depression.
But I think it will be too cold.
Will you tell them to clear a room for me and put an incense burner and my writing things in it?
I wont need you today.
I just want to sit quietly on my own for a while.
Tell the others I dont want to be disturbed.
Of course no one will disturb you if you want to study quietly, said Musk as soon as she heard this.
I think its an excellent idea, said Aroma.
You will be able to keep warm, and a day of studying on your own will help you to feel more settled.
She added But please, if you dont feel like eating a proper meal, have something.
What would you like?
Tell me now, and I can get them to prepare it in the kitchen.
Whatevers easiest, replied Bao-yu.
Dont go to a lot of fuss.
It would be nice to have some fruit in the room, for the scent.
Which room would you prefer?
asked Aroma.
They are all rather cluttered, except Skybrights old room, which has been empty for quite a while.
That might be a bit cold and lonely though.
That doesnt matter, said Bao-yu.
Have the charcoal brazier moved in there.
Aroma gave instructions for this to be done, and as she was speaking a maid came in carrying a tray with a bowl and a pair of ivory chopsticks, which she handed to Musk, saying Heres the soup Miss Hua ordered from the kitchen.
Musk took the tray and saw that the bowl contained Birds Nest Soup.
Is this what you ordered?
she asked Aroma.
Yes, replied Aroma with a smile.
I thought that as Master Bao had nothing to eat last night- and as he spent most of the night tossing in bed, hed feel rather empty this morning, so I sent the younger maids to order this specially from the kitchen.
She told the maid to bring up a table, and Musk served Bao-yu with the soup.
When he had drunk it and rinsed his mouth, Ripple came in The rooms ready, she said.
Were waiting for the fire to get going properly and the air to clear, and then you can go in, Master Bao.
He nodded, but was too lost in thought to reply.
Shortly afterwards a maid came in to report that his writing things had been laid out.
She received a perfunctory acknowledgement from Bao-yu and was immediately followed by another maid, who announced that breakfast was ready and asked where he wanted it served.
Oh, just bring it in here, said Bao-yu.
Theres no need to make all this fuss.
The maid went out and returned with his breakfast.
Bao-yu laughed and turning to Musk and Aroma said I feel so depressed.
I honestly dont think I could manage this on my own.
Why dont you two join me?
That might make the food taste sweeter, and then perhaps I might be able to eat more of it... Musk smiled.
Thats just a whim of yours, Master Bao.
You know it wouldnt be right for us to eat with you.
I dont agree, said Aroma.
Weve often drunk wine together in the past.
I think it can be allowed as an exception, to cheer him up.
Though of course as a regular practice it would be quite out of the question.
So the three of them sat down, Bao-yu at the head and the two maids at either side of the table.
After breakfast, one of the junior maids brought in the rinsing tea, and Musk and Aroma supervised the clearing of the table.
The tea was served and Bao-yu sat in gloomy silence again.
Is the room ready yet?
he asked eventually.
Ripple came in earlier on to tell you, said Musk.
What a silly question!
After sitting there a moment longer, he made his way over to Skybrights old room.
Having lit a stick of incense and arranged - the fruit on the table, he dismissed all the maids and closed the door.
Aroma and the others stood outside with bated breath.
He selected a length of pink paper with a gold-splash on it and flower patterns in the corners, said a short prayer, raised his brush and began to write FROM GREEN BOY TO SISTER SKYBRIGHT MAY THIS ODE OFFERED WITH LIBATION OF TEA AND -1411 BURNING OF PRECIOUS INCENSE FIND ACCEPTANCE IN YOUR SIGHT O Sweetest and most Inseparable friend!
Alas!
that in so cruel a storm Your life should end!
Your voice is gone, its tender Music none can learn.
Forever eastward flows the stream, Never to return.
Though dreams may never show Your face to me again, I see the Peacock Cape and feel A haunting pain.
When he had finished writing, Bao-yu took a burning joss-stick, held the paper to it and set the ode alight.
He sat in silence until the bundle of incense-sticks had burned to the end, then opened the door and walked out.
Why are you coming Out again so soon?
inquired Aroma.
Are you feeling low again?
He feigned a laugh.
I was rather depressed earlier on.
I needed to be on my own for a bit in a quiet place.
I feel better now.
I think I shall take a stroll.
He walked straight out into the Garden.
When he reached the Naiads House, he called from the courtyard Is Cousin Lin at home?
Whos that?
replied Nightingale.
She raised the door-curtain and saw him standing there.
Oh its you, Master Bao, she said with a smile.
Miss Lin is inside.
Please come in and sit down.
As Bao-yu went in with her, Dai-yus voice could be heard from the inner room Nightingale, please ask Master Bao to come in and wait a moment.
Bao-yu, walking towards the inner room, stopped to admire the pair of calligraphic scrolls that hung one on either side of the doorway.
The calligraphy looked recent and had been done on strips of dark purple paper, splashed with gold and decorated with a pattern of clouds and dragons.
The two lines ran -347 Through casement green the moon shines brightly still In bamboo chronicles the ancients are but empty words.
-347 Bao-yu read them with an appreciative smile and passed through into the inner room.
What are you doing, coz?
he inquired with a smile.
Dai-yu stood up, took a couple of steps towards him, smiled and said Please sit down.
Im copying out part of this sutra.
I only have two lines left to do.
Ill lust finish and then we can sit and chat.
She told Snowgoose to pour him some tea.
Please carry on writing, said Bao-yu.
Dont take any notice of me.
His attention had been caught by a painting hanging on the centre wall of the room.
It was a vertical scroll showing Chang E, the Moon Goddess, with one of her attendants, and another fairy, also with an attendant who was carrying what seemed to be a long bag containing clothes.
Apart from the clouds that surrounded the figures, there were no background details of any kind.
The linear style of the picture was reminiscent of the Song master Li Long-mian.
It bore the title The Contest in the Cold, written in the antique ba-fen style.
Have you hung this picture of the Contest in the Cold here recently, coz?
asked Bao-yu.
Yes.
I remembered it yesterday while they were tidying the room, and so I brought it out and told.them to hang it up.
Whats the allusion in the title?
Dai-yu laughed.
Surely you know!
Its such a well-known poem...
I cant quite recall it at present, confessed Bao-yu, smiling rather sheepishly.
Please tell me.
Dont you remember Li Shang-yins.
lines Braving the cold, Fairy Frost and Lady Moon Parade their rival charms...?
Of course!
exclaimed Bao-yu.
How exquisite!
And what an unusual subject!
This is the perfect time of year to have it up too.
He continued to amble round the room, inspecting it in a leisurely fashion, and Snowgoose brought him a cup of tea.
He drank his tea, and in a few minutes Dai-yu finished the section of the sutra she was copying, and stood up.
Forgive me, she said.
You know you dont have to stand on ceremony with me, he replied with a smile.
He observed that she was wearing a little pale blue fur-lined dress embroidered with flowers, and an ermine-lined sleeveless jacket, while her hair was coiled up in her everyday style and had no flowers in it but Only a flat hairpin of purest gold.
Her padded underskirt was pink , and embroidered with flowers.
How graceful she seemed, as a jade tree leaning in the wind how gentle, as a fragrant lotus whose petals are moist with dew!
Have you been playing your Qin at all these last few days?
he inquired.
Not for a day or two.
This sutra-copying makes my hands too cold.
Maybe.
its just as well, said Bao-yu.
I know the Qin is a fine thing in its way, but I cant see that it does any real good.
I have never heard of it bringing prosperity or long life it only seems to cause sorrow and distress.
And it must be such a labour to memorize those tablatures.
I think, coz, that with your delicate constitution you should avoid anything so strenuous.
Dai-yu smiled somewhat scornfully.
Is that the Qin you play?
Bao-yu went on, pointing to one hanging on the wall.
Isnt it rather short?
Not really, explained Dai-yu.
When I was a little girl and first started learning, I couldnt reach on an ordinary Qin, so we had this one specially made.
Its not a collectors piece of course, made with wood saved from the flames - but it has a Crane Fairy and a Phoenix Tail, and the Dragons Pool sound-hole and Goose Foot tuning-pegs are all in the correct proportions.
And look at the crackling on the varnish.
Doesnt that look just like Cow Hair crackle to you?
The fine workmanship gives it a beautiful tone.
Have you been writing any poetry recently, coz?
Baoyu went on to inquire.
Not much, not since the last meeting of the club.
He laughed.
You cant fool me.
I heard you chanting.
How did it go now?
-2027 Why grieve to watch The wheel of Karma turn?
A moonlike purity remains My constant goal... -347 I found your setting very striking.
You did write it didnt you?
Dai-yu How did you come to hear it?
Bao-yu I heard you playing when I was walking back from Smartweed Loggia a few days ago.
The music was so lovely and I didnt want to interrupt you, so I just listened quietly for a while and then went on my way.
There is one thing Ive been meaning to ask you.
I noticed that in the first part you use a level-tone rhyme, but suddenly change to an oblique tone at the end.
Why is that?
Dai-yu That is free composition.
One doesnt have to abide by any rules.
One just goes wherever the inspiration takes one.
Bao-yu I see!
Im afraid such subtleties were lost on my untrained ears.
Dai-yu True lovers of music have always been few.
Bao-yu realized that without meaning to he had said the wrong thing, and was afraid that he had alienated Dai-yu.
He sat there for a while.
There was so much he wanted to say, but he was now too nervous to open his mouth again.
Dai-yu had also spoken without thinking, and on reflection she wished that she had not been so scathing, and withdrew silently into her shell.
Her silence only increased Bao-yus own misgivings, and finally in some embarrassment he stood up and said I must be on my way to see Tan.
Please dont get up.
Give her my regards when you see her, will you?
said Dai-yu.
I will, he replied, and departed.
Dai-yu saw him to the door, then returned to her chair and sat brooding to herself.
Bao-yus been so odd recently.
He doesnt seem to say what hes thinking.
Hes friendly one minute and distant the next.
I wonder what it means?
Nightingale came in.
Have you finished copying for today, Miss?
Shall I put your writing things away now?
I shant be doing any more, replied Dai-yu.
You can clear them away.
Dai-yu went into the inner room and lay down on her bed, slowly turning all these things over in her mind.
Nightingale came in to ask if she would like some tea.
No, thank you.
I just want to be alone and lie down for a bit.
Very well, Miss.
Nightingale went out, to find Snowgoose standing in the doorway, staring oddly in front of her.
She went up to her and said Whats the matter with you?
Snowgoose was lost in thought, and the question gave her quite a turn.
Sh!
Dont say a word!
Ive heard something very strange.
If I tell you, you must promise not to breathe a word to anyone.
As she said this Snowgoose shot her lips out in the direction of Dai-yus bedroom, then began walking away, nodding to Nightingale to follow her.
They reached the foot of the terrace and she began again in a whisper Have you heard that Bao-yus engaged to be married?
Nightingale gave a start.
I dont believe you!
It cant be true!
It is!
Nearly everyone knows except us.
Who told you?
Scribe.
His fiance is a prefects daughter.
Shes very good-looking and comes from a wealthy family.
As Snowgoose was speaking, Nightingale heard Dai-yu cough and thought she could hear her getting up again.
Worried that she might come out and overhear them, she took Snowgoose by the hand and motioned to her to be silent.
She looked inside, but all seemed quiet.
She asked Snowgoose in a low whisper What exactly did Scribe say?
Do you remember, replied Snowgoose, a day or two ago you sent me to Miss Tans to thank her for something?
Well, she wasnt home, but Scribe was.
We started chatting, and one of us happened to mention Master Bao and his naughty ways.
Scribe said "When will Master Bao ever grow up?
He doesnt take anything seriously.
And to think that hes engaged to be married now - and still as silly as ever!"
I asked her if the engagement had been settled, and she said that it had and that the go-between was a Mr Wang, a close relation on the Ning-guo side, so the whole thing was a foregone conclusion.
Nightingale put her head thoughtfully to one side.
How very strange!
she thought to herself.
Why has no one in the family mentioned it?
she asked Snowgoose.
Thats Her Old Ladyships idea - so Scribe said.
Its in case Bao-yu finds out and is distracted from his studies.
She made me promise not to tell a soul, and said she would blame me if word got around.
Snowgoose pointed towards the house.
Thats why I havent mentioned it in front of her.
But today when you asked, I thought I could tell you the truth.
As she was speaking there was a loud squawk from the parrot Miss Lins back!
Put the kettle on!
The two maids had the fright of their lives and turned round expecting to see Dai-yu.
But seeing no one, and realizing their mistake, they scolded the bird and went inside.
They found Dai-yu at her chair.
She was out of breath and had clearly only just sat down.
Nightingale asked rather awkwardly if she wanted any tea or water.
Where have you two been all this time?
asked Dai-yu.
No one came when I called.
She walked back to the kang and lay down once more facing the wall, telling them to let down the bed-curtains.
They did so and left the room, each secretly thinking to herself that she had overheard them, but neither daring to say so.
Dai-yu, brooding on her bed, had heard them whispering outside and had crept to the door to eavesdrop.
Details of their conversation eluded her but the main substance was clear.
She felt as though plunged into a great ocean.
The prophecy contained in her nightmare was to be fulfilled after all.
Bitterness and grief overwhelmed her.
There was Only one way of escape left.
She must die.
She must not live to see this dreaded thing take place.
Without Bao-yu what would life be worth anyway?
She had no parents of her own to turn to.
Surely if she neglected herself daily from now on, in a few months she would be able to undermine her health and leave this world and all its troubles behind her?
Having formed this resolution, without bothering to pull up her quilt or put on any extra clothes she closed her eyes and pretended to be asleep.
Nightingale and Snow-goose came in several times to wait on her, but seeing no sign of movement did not dare disturb her, even for dinner.
Later, when the lamps were lit, Nightingale peeped through the curtains and saw that she had fallen asleep with her covers in a crumpled heap at her feet.
Afraid she might catch cold, Nightingale gently pulled them over her.
Dai-yu lay still until she had gone, then pushed them back again.
Meanwhile Nightingale questioned Snowgoose again Are you sure you werent making it up?
Of course I wasnt!
replied Snowgoose rather indignantly.
Nightingale But how did Scribe come to know?
Snowgoose It was Crimson that heard it first at Mrs Lians.
Nightingale I think Miss Lin must have overheard us.
I can tell that something has upset her greatly.
We must be careful never to mention it again.
The two maids tidied up and made themselves ready for bed.
Nightingale went in to see how Dai-yu was and found the quilt in the same crumpled heap as before.
She pulled it lightly back.
That night passed without further event.
The next morning Dai-yu rose early without waking either of the maids, and sat up on her own lost in thought.
Nightingale awoke to find her already up and said in surp4se Youre up very early this morning, Miss!
I know I am, replied Dai-yu rather curtly.
Its be-cause I went to sleep so early last night.
Nightingale quickly dressed and woke Snowgoose, and the two of them waited on Dai-yu at her toilet.
She sat staring into the mirror.
Tears began to stream down her face, and her silk scarf was soon wet through.
In the poets words A wasted face reflected in the spring stream And pity flows from face to mirrord face and back again.
-347 Nightingale stood by, not daring to utter a single comforting word, for fear that she would say the wrong thing and cause further anguish.
Dai-yu sat motionless for a considerable while, then finally began her morning toilet, negligently, her eyes still brimming with tears.
When it was done, she remained sitting where she was for a few minutes, then asked Nightingale to light some of the Tibetan incense.
But Miss, protested Nightingale, youve hardly had any sleep.
What do you want to go lighting incense for?
Youre surely not going to start copying the sutra again are you?
Dai-yu nodded.
But you woke so early, Miss.
If you start writing now youll exhaust yourself.
What does that matter?
The sooner its finished the better.
I only want to do it to keep myself occupied anyway.
And in days to come you will have my writing to remember me by.
As she said this tears began to pour down her cheeks, and Nightingale was no longer able to offer consolation but burst into tears herself.
Dai-yu was resolved that from this day forward she would deliberately destroy her health.
She soon lost her appetite, and gradually began to waste away.
Bao-yu visited her whenever he could after school, but although there were a million things she wanted to tell him, her consciousness that they were no longer children inhibited her from showing her affection by teasing him in the old way, and rendered her powerless to express what was preying on her mind.
Bao-yu for his part would have liked to talk with her sincerely and offer her some genuine comfort but he was afraid of aggravating her illness by offending her in some way, and so when he did see her, he merely inquired politely how she was feeling and added a few words of encouragement.
Theirs was a true case of estrangement in the very extremity of love.
Grandmother Jia and Lady Wang showed a motherly concern for Dai-yu, which however went no further than calling in the doctor.
Not knowing the inner source of her illness, they put it down to her sickly constitution, and Nightingale and Snowgoose were much too afraid to tell them the truth.
Dai-yu weakened day by day.
After a -347 fortnight her stomach had shrunk to the point where she could no longer bring herself to eat even gruel.
Every conversation she overheard during the day seemed to her to be connected in some way with Bao-yus marriage.
Every servant she saw from Green Delights seemed to be involved in the preparations.
When Aunt Xue came to visit her, Bao-chais absence confirmed her suspicions.
She began to hope that no one would come to see her.
She refused to take her medicine.
Her only remaining wish was to be left alone, and to die as quickly as possible.
In her dreams she constantly heard people addressing the new Mrs Bao, and her mind grew totally obsessed with the idea, like the proverbial drinker who, seeing a curved bow reflected in his cup, is convinced that he has swallowed a snake.
A few weeks of this self-imposed starvation and it seemed as if she must soon die.
Even the thinnest of gruels was now an impossibility.
Her breathing was scarcely perceptible.
She was hanging on by the slenderest thread.
To learn whether she was to survive this crisis or not, please turn to the next chapter.
CHAPTER 90 A poor girl loses a padded jacket and puts up with some obstreperous behaviour A young man accepts a tray of sweetmeats and is put out by some devious goings-on During the first week or so of Dai-yus decline, when Grandmother Jia and her aunts had taken it in turns to visit her, she had still possessed strength enough to make an occasional response to their inquiries.
But now she would eat nothing whatsoever, and for several days had hardly said a word.
The strange thing was that although at times she seemed unconscious, there were periods when she was perfectly lucid.
They began to suspect something, and interrogated Nightingale and Snowgoose more than once.
But the maids were too scared to say what they knew.
Nightingale for her part, while she would have liked to discover the latest news from Scribe, feared that the truth would only provide a further shock and hasten the hour of Dai-yus death, and so when she saw Scribe, she avoided the subject completely.
Snowgoose, as the transmitter of the news, felt responsible for Dai-yus condition and longed for a hundred tongues to cry out I never said a word!
She too, when questioned, maintained a close silence.
Nightingale, seeing that Dai-yu would eat nothing, and judging that all hope was now gone, stood by her bedside crying for a while, then went outside and whispered to Snowgoose Go in and watch her carefully.
Im going straight over to tell Her Old Ladyship, Her Ladyship and Mrs Lian.
She has definitely taken a turn for the worse today.
She departed, and Snowgoose went in to take her place.
She found Dai-yu lying very still, as if in a deep sleep.
Being only a child with no experience of such things, she took this state for death itself, and began to feel both tearful and frightened.
If only Nightingale would hurry up and come back!
At that very moment she heard footsteps outside the window.
That must be Nightingale now!
Breathing a sigh of relief, she stood up at once and went to the doorway of the inner chamber, lifting the door-curtain in expectation.
She heard the swish of the outer door-curtain, and in came not Nightingale but Scribe, sent by Tan-chun to inquire how Dai-yu was.
Seeing Snowgoose standing in the inner doorway, she asked How is Miss Lin?
Snowgoose nodded to her to come in and Scribe entered the inner room with her.
She noticed that Nightingale was not there, and when she looked at Dai-yu and saw how feebly she was breathing, a look of horror came over her face.
Wheres Nightingale gone?
she asked.
To tell their Ladyships, replied Snowgoose.
Certain that Dai-yu, if not actually dead, was by this time at any rate dead to the world, Snowgoose decided to take advantage of Nightingales absence to question Scribe.
Taking her by the hand, she asked in a whisper Did you really mean what you said the other day about Mr Wang, and Master Baos betrothal?
Of course I did!
replied Scribe.
When was it settled?
I never said it was!
What I told you was just what Id heard from Crimson.
Later I was at Mrs Lians myself, and heard her say to Patience that the whole thing was something the Masters literary gentlemen had thought up, to please him and provide themselves with a connection.
As it happened Lady Xing didnt even think it a good match.
But even if she had approved, everyone knows how unreliable her judgement is.
Besides, Her Old Ladyship already has someone else in mind for Master Bao, someone here in the Garden.
Lady Xing had no idea of that, of course, and Her Old Ladyship only allowed them to go ahead with the normal inquiries for the Masters sake.
Mrs Lian said Her Old Ladyship wants Bao-yu to marry one of his cousins, and her mind is quite made up, so any other proposals are a waste of time.
Snowgoose was beside herself.
Then our mistress is dying for nothing!
she exclaimed.
What do you mean?
asked Scribe.
Dont you know?
The other day Miss Lin overheard me telling Nightingale about the betrothal - thats why she has brought herself to this terrible state now.
Sh!
whispered Scribe.
She might hear you!
Shes completely dead to the world, replied Snow-goose.
Look - she cant last more than a day or two now.
As she was speaking, the door-curtain was drawn aside and in came Nightingale.
For goodness sake!
she exclaimed.
Cant you two do your gossiping somewhere else?
You might as well drive her to her death!
I simply cannot believe such strange goings-on, muttered Scribe.
My dear Scribe, retorted Nightingale, dont misunderstand me please.
I didnt mean to offend you, But you must be so stupid to gossip like that.
The three of them were interrupted by a sudden cough from Dai-yus bed on the kang.
Nightingale hurried to the bedside, while Snowgoose and Scribe stoo4 in silence.
Nightingale bent down and whispered to Dai-yu, who was lying with her face to the wall Would you like some water, Miss?
There was a barely audible yes and Snowgoose promptly filled a cup half-full with hot water and handed it to Nightingale, who held it in the palm of her hand.
Scribe meanwhile had moved towards the kang and was about to speak to Dai-yu when Nightingale motioned to her not to say anything and she checked herself.
They stood waiting.
After a short interval Dai-yu coughed again and Nightingale inquired at once Would you like the water now, Miss?
There was another faint yes and Dai-yu seemed to want to lift her head, but was too feeble to do so.
Nightingale climbed up onto the kang by her side and, holding the cup in her hand, first tested the water to make sure it was not too hot, then raised it to Dai-yus mouth, supporting her head until the rim of the cup reached her lips.
Dai-yu took a sip, and Nightingale was about to remove the cup when she saw that Dai-yu wanted some more.
She held the cup where it was.
Dai-yu drank again, shook her head to show that it was enough, took a deep breath and lay down once more.
After a pause she opened her eyes a fraction and asked Was that Scribe I heard talking just now?
Yes, Miss, replied Nightingale.
Scribe was still in the room and came up to the kang at once to convey Tan-chuns message.
Dai-yu stared at her for a minute and nodded.
After a pause she said When you go home, give Miss Tan my regards will you?
Scribe took this to mean that Dai-yu wanted her to leave and made her way quietly out of the room.
Now although Dai-yus condition was extremely grave, her power of reason was unimpaired.
She was aware of Scribes arrival and vaguely heard the first words she exchanged with Snowgoose.
She felt too exhausted to cope with a visitor, and so pretended to be asleep.
But as the conversation progressed, it became clear to her that what she had taken to be a fact had never been more than a proposal.
And then she heard Scribe repeat Xi-fengs words, that Grandmother Jia intended to marry Bao-yu to one of his cousins, to one that lived in the Garden and who could that be but herself?
Just as at the winter solstice Yin gives birth to Yang, so now in her mind darkness gave way to light.
She suddenly felt much clearer within herself, decided to drink some water and even spoke to Scribe.
It was at this moment that Grandmother Jia, Lady Wang, Li Wan and Xi-feng arrived on the scene, in response to Nightingales urgent summons.
Now that Dai-yus inner doubts had been so dramatically dissipated, she no longer presented the spectacle of the dying maiden that Nightingale had led them to expect.
She was still weak and low in spirits, but was able with an effort to say a few words in reply to their inquiries.
Xi-feng called Nightingale over and questioned her Miss Lin is not nearly as ill as you made out.
Why did you exaggerate so?
We were most alarmed.
Honestly, maam, replied Nightingale, only a while ago she was in a bad way.
Thats why I came over.
I would never have dared to bother you otherwise.
She does seem a lot better now.
Its most strange.
Grandmother Jia said to Xi-feng with a smile You shouldnt take what she says so seriously, my dear.
She doesnt understand such things.
Mind you she was quite right to speak up if she noticed anything the matter.
Ive no time for young people who never say a word or do anything for fear of appearing foolish.
The ladies stayed for a few minutes chatting, then, deciding that all was well, returned to their apartments.
Truly No remedy but love Can make the lovesick well Only the hand that tied the knot Can loose the tigers bell.
After this Dai-yus condition continued to improve steadily, and Snowgoose and Nightingale offered many a secret prayer of thanks to the Lord Buddha.
Thank goodness shes better!
said Snowgoose to Nightingale.
But what an odd illness!
And what an odd way to get better!
We know what caused it, said Nightingale.
Its this sudden recovery thats puzzling.
I think Bao-yu and Miss Lin must be destined to be married after all.
The course of true love never did run smooth, but Marriages made in heaven can never be broken either!
You can tell they are destined to be together.
Thats what they both want in their hearts, and that must be what Heaven has decreed for them.
Remember what happened to Bao-yu last year, when I told him Miss Lin was going home to the South?
He nearly died of shock, and made the most terrible scene.
And now that one remark of ours has nearly been the death of her.
Theirs must be a bond from some previous life, made a century ago at the Rock of Rebirth!
They exchanged a secret smile at this romantic theory, and Snowgoose exclaimed Thank goodness shes better anyway!
We must never mention it again!
Even if Bao-yu were to marry another lady and I witnessed the wedding with my own eyes, I swear I wouldnt breathe a word of it to anyone.
Nightingale laughed.
Well said!
Theirs were not the only secret discussions on this subject.
Dai-yus strange illness and stranger recovery gave rise to a great deal of whispering and speculation in the household, which soon reached the ears of Xi-feng.
Lady Wang and Lady Xing vaguely suspected something, and Grandmother Jia herself had a shrewd idea what was at the bottom of it all.
The four ladies were gathered one day in Grandmother Jias apartment, and in the course of their conversation the subject of Dai-yus illness came up.
There is something I want to say to you all, said Grandmother Jia.
Bao-yu and Miss Lin have been together ever since they were little, and this has never troubled me, as I have always thought of them as children.
But of late I have noticed how frequent these illnesses of hers are becoming - how suddenly they come, and how suddenly they go - a sure sign that she is growing up.
It really wont do to allow them to stay together indefinitely.
What do you all think?
After a thoughtful silence Lady Wang replied, choosing her words with care Miss Lin reads such a lot into things.
And Bao-yus childish manner is deceptive he can be extremely stupid and tactless.
If we remove either one of them from the Garden, wont it be too obvious?
It has always been said that every boy becomes a groom and every girl becomes a bride.
Dont you think, Mother, that a better solution would be to go ahead as quickly as possible and get them both married?
Grandmother Jia frowned.
I know that Miss Lins peculiar temperament is in some ways attractive.
But I dont think we could possibly have her as a wife for Bao-yu.
Besides, Im- afraid that with such a delicate constitution she is unlikely to live to any age.
Im sure Bao-chai is in every respect the more suitable choice.
Of course we all agree with you there, Mother, said Lady Wang.
But we must find a husband for Miss Lin too.
If we do not, and if she has taken a fancy to Bao-yu -after all, it is only natural for a girl to have such feelings as she grows up - it might make things very -difficult if she were then to discover that he was already betrothed to Bao-chai.
There can be no question, replied Grandmother Jia, of marrying an outsider before one of the family.
The order must be first to marry Bao-yu, then to have Miss Lin betrothed.
Besides Miss Lin is two years younger than Bao-yu anyway.
If I understand you correctly, we shall have to conceal Bao-yus betrothal from her... Xi-feng turned at once to the various maids present Is that clear?
Not a word of Master Baos betrothal to anyone!
If I catch one of you talking about it I shall show no mercy.
Feng dear, continued Grandmother Jia, I have noticed that since your illness you have taken less interest in what happens in the Garden.
You really must give it more of your attention.
Its not just the sort of thing we have been talking about.
Any repetition of that disgraceful drinking and gambling that was discovered among the servants last year must be prevented at all costs.
Be rather more particular, will you, and keep a watchful eye on what goes on.
They need to be- disciplined, and you seem to be the one they respect most.
Yes, Grannie, said Xi-feng.
The ladies sat talking for a while longer, then left to go their separate ways.
From now on Xi-feng began to inspect the Garden on a more regular basis.
One day, in the course of one of her tours of inspection, she was walking along the bank by Amaryllis Eyot when she heard an old woman shouting outside the courtyard and went to investigate.
As she drew near the old serving-woman caught sight of her, dropped her hands to her side and stood to attention, mumbling a confused Good morning, maam.
Why are you making such a racket out here?
asked Xi-feng.
You and Mrs Zhu have given me a job to do here, maam, replied the woman, looking after the flowerbeds and fruit-trees.
Id done nothing wrong, and Miss Xings maid accused us of stealing.. And why should she do that?
asked Xi-feng.
- Yesterday our Blackie came with me here to play, replied the woman.
She didnt know any better and went inside Miss Xings apartment to have a look around.
I sent her home straight away.
Then early this morning I heard one of the maids say theyd lost something.
When I asked what it was, she started questioning me all about it Thats no cause for you to lose your temper, retorted Xi-feng.
what This Garden belongs to Mrs Zhus family not hers!
protested the old woman.
We work for Mrs Zhu and I wont be called a thief!
Xi-feng spat straight in the old - womans face and said harshly Hold your tongue!
Thats quite enough!
Youre responsible for things here and if something is lost the maids are quite right to hold you accountable for it.
How dare you talk such nonsense!
Call Steward Lin and have her dismissed!
The maids were carrying out her orders when Xing Xiu-yan came hurrying out.
She greeted Xi-feng and said with an anxious smile You mustnt do that!
It was nothing really.
And its all over now.
My dear girl, said Xi-feng, that is not the right attitude to take.
Its the principle Im concerned with.
The servants must learn to know their place.
Xiu-yan saw that the woman was on her knees begging for mercy, and asked Xi-feng at once to go inside with her and sit down.
I know her sort, said Xi-feng.
They think they can get away with anything - except when Im around.
When Xiu-yan continued to plead for the woman, however, and insisted on putting the blame on her own maid, she relented.
Out of consideration for Miss Xing, she announced, I shall let you off this once.
The old woman came forward to kotow first to Xi-feng then to Xiu-yan, and left.
Once she had gone, Xiu-yan asked Xi-feng to be seated.
What was it that you lost?
inquired Xi-feng pleasantly.
Nothing of any importance, replied Xiu-yan with a smile.
Just an old red padded jacket of mine.
I told them to look for it and when it didnt turn up thought no more about it.
My maid was silly to question that woman.
She was bound to take offence.
My maid was very thoughtless and Ive already given her a good talking to.
The whole affair is over and best forgotten.
While she was speaking, Xi-feng had been inspecting Xiu-yans clothes and the general appearance of her apartment.
Her few padded or fur-lined clothes looked rather worn and ineffective as protection against the cold.
Most of her quilted bedding looked on the thin side too.
She glanced at the furniture and the ornaments on her table, all of them provided by Grandmother Jia, and noticed how immaculately clean and tidy they had been kept.
Xi-feng felt a warm respect towards her.
I know a jacket is nothing to fuss over, she said.
But the weather is growing cold, and you need it to keep you warm.
Of course you were right to question her.
Honestly!
The insolent way these servants carry on!
She sat talking with Xiu-yan for a while and then left to continue her tour of inspection, stopping off in all the various residences before returning to her own apartment.
There she instructed Patience to make up a parcel of her clothes to be sent over to Xiu-yan it was to contain two padded jackets, one of dark-red imported silk, the other of viridian damask-silk lined with pearly lambswool, a long turquoise worsted skirt with brocade appliqu panels and an embroidered border, and a deep- blue ermine-lined jacket.
Despite Xi-fengs intervention on her behalf, Xiu-yan was still most mortified by the womans rudeness.
Of all the girls who live here, she thought to herself, Im the only one the servants would dare to offend in that way.
They say things about me all the time.
And now Feng has seen it for herself!
The more she thought about it the more depressing her position seemed.
And yet it was impossible for her to confide in anyone.
Bowing to her fate, she was just beginning to weep when she saw Xi-fengs maid Felicity come in carrying a bundle of clothes.
Soon realizing whose they were, she absolutely refused to accept them.
But Miss, protested Felicity, Mrs Lian says that if you think they are too old she will change them for - newer ones.
Xiu-yan smiled politely.
Its very thoughtful of her.
But I cant possibly let her give me some of her clothes just because Ive lost one of mine.
Please take them back and thank her most kindly for me.
I do appreciate the thought.
She gave her a little purse, and Felicity departed with some reluctance, carrying the bundle.
Minutes later she was back, this time accompanied by Patience.
Xiu-yan -384 - hurried out to greet them and asked them both to be seated.
Patience smiled and said Mrs Lian says you should accept them as one of the family and not be so polite.
But Im not being polite, replied Xiu-yan.
Honestly.
Id be embarrassed to take them.
Mrs Lian says, persisted Patience, that if you wont take them it must either be because theyre too old or because you dont like the idea of wearing her things.
She says that if I take them back shell be cross with me.
Xiu-yan blushed and smiled gratefully Well, in that case, how can I possibly refuse?
Please convey my thanks to Mrs Lian.
She served them both tea, after which Felicity and Patience left.
They were almost home again when they met one of Aunt Xues women.
She greeted them, and Patience asked her where she was going.
Mrs Xue and our young lady sent me over to convey their regards to all their Ladyships and young madams and young ladies.
I was at Mrs Lians just now asking for you, and she told me youd gone into the Garden.
Have you just been to Miss Xings by any chance?
Why, how did you know that?
asked Patience.
Oh, a little birdie told me... Its most generous I think, what you and your mistress are doing... Patience gave a little laugh.
Wont you come in and have a chat later on?
I still have things to do.
Another day, replied the old woman and went on her way, while Patience went in to report to Xi-feng.
When the serving-woman returned to the Xue household, which was in its usual state of upheaval, thanks to the disruptive behaviour of Xia Jin-gui, she recounted the story of Xing Xiu-yans humiliation, and both Aunt Xue and Bao-chai began to weep.
Its only because Pans away, said Bao-chai, that she has to go on suffering like this.
We are lucky that Feng has been looking after her.
In future we must keep more of an eye on her ourselves.
She is after all practically one of the family now.
As she was speaking Xue Ke came in.
In all the years hes spent here Pan hasnt made a single decent friend!
he said.
Theyre a pack of rogues the lot of them!
Im sure they dont care in the slightest what happens to him.
Theyre only curious to know the latest news.
This last couple of days Ive told them all to go away, and Ive given the janitors instructions not to -let any of them in.
Is it that actor Jiang and his friends again?
asked Aunt Xue.
No, as a matter of fact he hasnt been here at all.
Its a different crowd.
Xue Kes words intensified Aunt Xues anxiety.
Though I - have -a son, she said it is as though I had none.
Even if Pan wins this reprieve, his life is ruined.
You are only my nephew, Ke, but you show much more sense than Pan.
I can see that from now on I shall have to depend on you.
Be sure to work hard and make the most of your life.
And think of your bride-to-be, who comes from a family that has fallen on hard times.
It is always hard when a daughter goes out into the world and gets married.
One can only pray that her husband will turn out well and be capable of providing for her.
Imagine if Xiu-yan were to turn out like this creature here... Gesturing in the direction of Xia Jin-guis room Aunt Xue continued But I dont want to talk about her.
I know Xiu-yan to be an honest and thoughtful girl, thrifty and unspoilt.
The sooner Pans business is settled the sooner we can get the two of you married and set my poor heart at rest.
Dont forget that Bao-qin is still waiting to be married, Xue Ke reminded his aunt.
I know how concerned you are about that.
Dont-worry on our account.
They stayed chatting together for a few minutes longer and then Xue Ke returned to his room.
He ate his dinner and began to think about Xiu-yan in the Garden, forced by poverty t6 be so utterly dependent on the Jias.
The two of them had travelled by the same boat on their original journey to the capital, and he had been able to see for himself that she was a pretty, good-natured girl.
How unjust of destiny to give a creature like Xia Jin-gui a life of wealth and luxury and turn her int6 a spoilt shrew,- while for a girl like Xiu-yan there was nothing but hardship!
What was in the mind of the Great Arbiter Yama when he made such a dispensation?
These gloomy thoughts stirred Xue Ke to.
express his sense of injustice in poetic form.
His was a untutored pen, but he did as best he could.
-1120 As the flood-dragon flounders on the shore, So our two hearts languish under like privations.
When will we drink this bitter cup no more And soar unfettered through the constellations?
He read the lines through and thought of sticking them up on his wall.
He felt a little self-conscious however, and thought to himself What if someone sees the and makes fun of me He read them through again.
Oh who cares!
I will put them up.
I can read them anyway, to cheer myself up.
A final reading made him change his mind yet again, however, and he slipped them between the pages of a bo6k.
Im old enough for us to be married now, he mused to himself.
But who could have foreseen this family crisis, and who knows when it will ever end?
What an ordeal for a gentle girl like Xiu-yan!
How lonely and wretched she must feel!
At that moment the door was pushed open and Moonbeam came in carrying a round covered-tray and a jug of wine, which she deposited with a simpering smile on the table.
He rose and asked her to be seated.
Still smiling she said Four plates of sweetmeats and a small jug of wine, with Mrs Pans compliments, Master Ke.
Its most kind of her, replied Ke, but surely she could have sent one of the younger maids?
She didnt need to bother you, Miss Moonbeam.
Oh Master Ke, theres no need to be so polite.
Its all in the family after all... Mrs Pan knows what trouble youve been put to on account of Mr Pan, and shes been meaning for a long time to thank you herself but was afraid the others might take it the wrong way.
In this household, as I think you know, sir, theres a lot goes on beneath the surface.
People are only waiting to pounce on a little thing like a present, and then they start inventing all kinds of stories.
Thats why shes been ever so slightly discreet and asked me to come over personally with these few things today when no one was looking... She gave Xue Ke a saucy smile and continued And please, no more of that Miss Moonbeam - it makes me feel most uncomfortable.
We are only here to serve, and if we can serve Mr Pan, then why not you as well?
Xue Ke was young and had a trusting nature.
It was odd that Pans womenfolk should suddenly start treating him like this but Moonbeams explanation was a plausible one, he reflected.
You can leave the sweetmeats, he said.
"But take the wine back with you.
Ive never been much of a drinker.
Occasionally if pushed to it I can manage a cup, but usually I dont drink at all.
Surely you and Mrs Pan knew that?
Ask anything else of me!
pleaded Moonbeam.
But I wouldnt dare take it back - you know Mrs Pans temper.
If I tell her you dont drink, shell never believe me shell say-Ive failed in my duty.
Reluctantly Xue Ke allowed her to leave the wine too.
Moonbeam began to leave, but on reaching the doorway she took a quick look outside and glanced back at Xue Ke with a smile.
Pointing in the direction of Xia Jin-guis apartment she said I think she might even come over herself to thank you for all youve done... Xue Ke was not sure how to take this, and began to feel rather nervous.
Please convey my thanks to Mrs Pan will you?
The weather is cold, and she must be careful not to catch a chill.
Besides she is my cousin s wife and there 5 no need for her to go to such lengths.
Moonbeam said nothing but tittered and went on her way.
At first Xue Ke had been prepared to accept the offering as a genuine expression of gratitude on Jin-guls part.
But now Moonbeams suggestive behaviour had aroused his suspicions, and he began to think there was something fishy going on.
But surely Jin-gui would never think of such a thing?
he argued with himself.
She is my sister-in-law.
Perhaps its Moonbeam up to no good.
She cant very well act on her own initiative.
Maybe she is using Jin-gui as a cover.
.
.
But then shes Pans chamber-wife so thats hardly very...
Suddenly it occurred to him Of course!
Jin-guis no lady!
Sometimes when shes in the mood, she gets herself up like a regular harlot - she obviously fancies herself as some sort of man-killer!
Another possibility is that shes fallen out with Bao-qin and this is a plot to disgrace me and drag the family name in the mud... Xue Ke could not help finding all this rather daunting, and was racking his brains for some means of dealing with the situation, when to his great alarm he heard a splutter of laughter outside the window.
But to discover who was laughing, you must turn to the next chapter.
CHAPTER 91 In the pursuance of lust, Moonbeam evolves an artful strata gem In a flight of Zen, Bao-yu makes an enigmatic confession We saw in our last chapter how Xue Ke was startled from his troubled reflections by a sudden splutter of laughter from outside his window.
Moonbeam again!
Or Jin-gui!
he thought to himself.
I shall ignore them and see what happens.
He listened for a while but there was no further sound.
Not daring to touch the wine and sweetmeats, he closed the door and was about to undress when he heard a faint tap at the paper casement.
He was already rattled by Moonbeams behaviour and beginning to feel out of his depth.
Hearing the tapping and yet unable to detect a presence outside the window, he didnt know what to think.
He did up his gown again and sat down abstractedly by the lamp.
He took a sweetmeat from the table and turned it over restlessly in his hand, studying it from every angle.
Suddenly something made him look round.
A small peephole of the lick-and-spittle variety had appeared in the window.
Going across and putting his eye to the hole, he squinted through and received a blast of air in the face that quite startled the wits out of him.
It was followed by another splutter of laughter.
Rushing back, he blew out the.
lamp and lay down in the darkness, holding his breath.
A voice came from outside Are you going to sleep without trying the wine and sweetmeats?
Xue Ke recognized it as Moonbeams voice but said nothing and lay there pretending to be asleep.
A few seconds later, in a disgruntled tone Miserable spoilsport!
You dont know what youre missing!
This time he could not identify the voice with any certainty.
It sounded like Moonbeam, but there was something of Xia Jin-guis expression in it too.
Whoever it was, there was no longer any doubt in his mind as to their intentions.
He tossed and turned for most of that night, and it was not until after five oclock that he finally fell asleep.
Shortly after dawn someone knocked at the door.
Whos there?
Xue Ke called out.
No answer.
He got out of bed to open the door and saw Moonbeam, her hair combed simply back, wearing a tight little sleeveless jacket, its gold-striped neck-line cut in the shape of a guitar, its buttons seductively undone.
She had a new-looking viridian scarf around her neck and instead of a skirt was sporting pomegranate-red linedpantaloons of a flowery design, and a pair of smart red embroided slippers.
She had come before doing her morning toilet, to remove the sweetmeats before the rest of the household arose.
Though rather taken aback to see her advancing into his room en nglig, he asked politely Why are you up so early this morning?
Moonbeam blushed in reply, piled the sweetmeats onto one plate and went out holding it in both hands.
Xue Ke interpreted this as pique at her failure o seduce him the previous evening.
Oh well, he thought to himself, its too bad if Ive annoyed them.
At least theyll lose interest and leave me alone.
He decided that he could forget about the whole business, and called for water to wash his face.
It would be wise, he decided, to stay at home and take a couple pf days rest, for his own health and peace of mind, and also to avoid tile unwelcome attentions of Xue Pans so-called friends, who seeing the Xue family deprived of its head and observing his own youth and inexperience, had caught the scent of money in the air.
Some of them would have been content to act as messengers some professed a knowledge of legal phraseology or claimed contacts behind the scenes and offered to deliver bribes to the officials and minions involved in the case others advised him to make some money out of it for himself, while a few even tried scaring him with false rumours.
Since he first encountered them, Xue Ke had done his utmost to avoid these unsavoury elements, but was aware that by openly rebuffing them he might create further trouble for himself.
The only safe course, he concluded, was to lie low at home and await the confirmation of Pans sentence.
To return to Xia Jin-gui.
She had sent Moonbeam over on the previous night with the wine and sweetmeats in order to explore Xue Kes susceptibility to her charms.
When Moonbeam returned and described in detail what had happened, Jin-gui realized that she had miscalculated and that by pursuing such a strategy she would cause herself much pointless trouble and forfeit Moonbeams respect.
If she were to disguise her disappointment with a few words of feigned indifference, that would do nothing to relieve her own hankering after Xue Ke.
Unable for the present to think of any other means of achieving her ends, she sat in moody silence.
She was unaware that Moonbeam had been thinking along exactly the same lines as herself.
Moonbeam too reckoned that Xue Pan might not be back for some time and felt in dire need of a substitute.
She had only been held back from procuring one by the fear of being caught at it by Jin-gui.
Now that Jin-gui had made the first move, however, Moonbeam was only too glad to cruise along in her wake.
She would step in first and become Xue Kes mistress, and Jin-gui would have no choice but to accept the fait accompli.
Such was the reasoning behind her provocative behaviour.
Her first impression had been that the young master showed promise.
True, he was not exactly leaping into her arms.
She would have to play him slowly, which is precisely what she was doing when, to her intense disappointment, he blew out the lamp and went to bed.
She reported back to Jin-gui, anxious to see what new course of action she might suggest.
As nothing was forthcoming from her mistress however but this moody silence, she helped her prepare for the night and herself went to bed.
She had a sleepless night.
As she lay tossing and turning, a new plan began to take shape in her mind.
She would rise early and go to Xue Kes apartment at once to collect the tray she would slip on a couple of the more alluring items in her wardrobe, but otherwise not bother with her morning toilet, in order to look as sleepy and seductive as possible, straight from the boudoir... She would observe what effect this had on Xue Ke, while maintaining a show of annoyance and indifference towards him.
This surely would be his chance to repent of his folly.
She could help him aboard and pip Jin-gui at the post.
In the event Xue Ke the morning after proved as totally incorruptible as he had been the evening before, and Moonbeam found herself obliged to go through in earnest with her charade of walking out in a huff.
She did however still keep her wits sufficiently about her to leave behind the wine-jug, as a pretext for one final manoeuvre.
Did anyone see you when you fetched the things?Jing-gui asked her on her return.
Not a soul.
What about Master Ke?
Did he have anything to say?
No.
Jin-gui too had spent a sleepless night, without having thought of any alternative plan of campaign.
If I am to go ahead with things, she thought to herself, I can hardly hope to keep Moonbeam in the dark much longer.
I shall have to bring her in on it.
Im sure she won t say anything then.
Besides I need her to act as a go-between.
I cant go myself.
Id better talk to her and see if we cant think of a good plan between us.
She smiled at Moonbeam and asked What do you make of Master Ke anyway?
He seems rather a fool.
Jin-gui laughed.
How dare you insult one of the masters like that... Moonbeam laughed.
Hes asking for it, giving you the bird like that... And just what do you mean by that?
Oh, only the way he wouldnt touch any of the sweetmeats you sent of course... What else?
She said this with a smirk and a meaningful look at Jin-gui, who replied Thats quite enough of your insinuations!
I sent those things to thank him for all that hes done for Mr Pan, and I only asked you what had happened in case people had been gossiping.
I have no idea what you are trying to suggest.
Theres no need to worry, maam, said Moonbeam coolly.
Im on your side, you can count on me.
But we must be very discreet.
It would be serious if word got around.
Jin-gui felt her face burning.
You little whore!
So youve fallen for him have you, and think you can use me as a cover for your goings-on, is that it?
Think so if you like, maam.
I was only trying to help.
If you really fancy him, I think I have a plan.. "Every mouse will steal oil if he can."
Hes just scared of being found out, and wants to keep out of trouble.
You must be patient, maam.
Find as many little ways as you can of making yourself helpful.
He is Mr Pans younger cousin, after all, and doesnt have a wife.
If you set your mind to it, I am sure you can get yourself into his good books, and no one will be able to say a word against you for it.
In a few days hell be ready to show his gratitude by paying you a return visit.
You lay on a little party here -Ill help you get him drunk - and hes yours!
If he wont play, well create a scene and accuse him of making a pass that should clinch it.
Hell be too scared to say no then!
If he still holds out, why then well know that hes just a sissy and not worth wasting time over anyway.
What do you think?
Jin-gui was puce in the face.
Why you little strumpet!
I can see youve had a few in your time!
No wonder Pan couldnt let you out of his sight!
Moonbeam pulled a face and laughed.
Is that all the thanks I get for helping to bring the two of you together?
From now on Jin-guis only thought was the conquest of Xue Ke.
And as she wished to accomplish this without attracting attention, the Xue compound enjoyed a brief respite from its usual alarms and excursions.
Later that same day Moonbeam went to collect the wine-jug.
She was as scrupulously well-behaved as she had been in the morning, and caused Xue Ke, who watched her out of the corner of his eye, a certain amount of remorse and self-doubt.
Perhaps I was wrong, he thought to himself.
Perhaps Ive been imagining the whole thing,.
and they really meant well.
In which case my ingratitude may have offended her and who knows what trouble this may lead to.
And it will all have been my own fault... A couple of days went by and all was quiet.
Whenever he saw Moonbeam, she lowered her head and walked away without so much as a glance in his direction.
Jin-gui, on the other hand, pursued him with an eagerness that made him feel most uncomfortable.
But of all this more later.
Aunt Xue and Bao-chai noticed how quiet Jin-gui had become all of a sudden, and how charming she was being to everyone.
The change came as a great surprise, but nothing could have pleased Aunt Xue more, and she reasoned to herself about it thus At the time of his marriage Pan must have crossed some unlucky star, which is what has caused all his subsequent misfortune.
Thanks to our financial resources and the efforts of the Jias we have managed to avert disaster in this court-case, and perhaps this sudden change on Jin-guis part is a sign that his luck has turned for the good...
It was in fact not far short of a miracle.
One day after lunch Aunt Xue thought she would pay Jin-gui a visit, and set off supported by Prosper.
She reached the courtyard in front of Jin-guis apartment, when she heard a man S voice engaged in conversation with Jin-gui outside.
Prosper called ahead diplomatically Mrs Pan, Mrs Xue is here to see you!
They were already in the doorway.
As they advanced the figure of a man could be dimly seen escaping behind the door.
Aunt Xue recoiled in alarm.
Do please come in and sit down, Mother, said Jin-gui.
Thats only my adopted brother Xia San.
Hes from the country and not used to company.
This is the first time he has been here and he has never been introduced.
He was intending to call on you to pay his respects.
If he is your brother, then I should be glad to meet him, said Aunt Xue.
Jin-gui called her brother out from his hiding-place, and he made a bow and paid his respects.
Aunt Xue replied politely and sat down.
How long have you been in the capital?
she asked by way of conversation.
I was only adopted into the family two months ago.
Mother needed someone to look after household business.
I arrived the day before yesterday, and came here today to see my new sister.
Aunt Xue could see that he was rather an uncouth sort of fellow, and did not like to stay long.
I must be going, she said.
Dont get up.
Then turning to Jin-gui As this is your brothers first visit, please invite him to stay for dinner.
Yes, Mother.
Aunt Xue took her leave.
When she was out of the room, Jin-gui turned to Xia San.
Sit down.
Ive kept our connection open and above board on purpose, so as to avoid suspicion from young Master Ke.
Ive some things I want you to buy for me in town, and I dont want anyone to know about them.
Of course, sis.
Leave it to me.
Give me the cash and Ill guarantee to deliver the goods.
Not so fast youd better be careful not to be swindled, or I might not accept delivery... After a little more banter of this kind, Jin-gui had dinner with Xia San, after which she specified her commissions, gave him certain other instructions and he went on his way.
From that day on he became a frequent visitor at Jin-guis apartment.
The old janitor usually let him through without going through the proper procedure of making an announcement, knowing him to be Mrs Pans brother.
His visits provided the wherewithal for many a plot.
But we anticipate.
One day a letter arrived from Xue Pan.
Aunt Xue opened it and sent for Bao-chai to read it to her.
This is what it said Dear Mother, I am being reasonably treated here in prison, so please set your mind at rest.
I had some bad news yesterday however, from the clerk of the court.
My sentence was approved at the prefectural level - I presume the family had been in touch with the prefect.
But when the case came up before the circuit court, the Taotai rejected the judgement.
The secretary here at the yamen has been very helpful and has sent an immediate petition in defence of the original judgement.
But the Taotai has issued an official statement reprimanding the local mandarin for malpractice.
He wants .me to appear before the circuit court.
If I do, I could be in trouble again.
We cant have approached the Taotai yet.
Please send someone to do this as soon as my letter reaches you.
And send Cousin Ke here at once.
Any delay may result in my being sent under escort to the circuit court.
On no account stint the money!
Extremely urgent!
This sent Aunt Xue into floods of tears.
Bao-chai and Xue Ke did their best to calm her down, while at the same time impressing upon her the need to act swiftly.
Once again she was obliged to part with her nephew - bags were packed, money weighed out, and Xue Ke prepared to set off that same night with one of the family shop-assistants.
It was a night of feverish activity, and Bao-chai herself stayed up till the early hours, helping and making sure that nothing was overlooked by the servants.
The combination of nervous strain and physical exhaustion proved too much for a girl of her gentle nature and refined upbringing, and the next morning she went down with a fever and was unable to swallow water or medicine.
Oriole reported this at once to Aunt Xue, who came hurrying over.
Finding Bao-chai unable to speak, her face bright red, her body burning hot to the touch, she immediately panicked and burst into tears.
Bao-qin tried to comfort and support her aunt, while Caltrop was so affected by Bao-chais appearance that she could only stand by the bedside calling her name and weeping.
Baochai was too weak to speak or move her hands.
Her eyes were dry, her nose blocked.
They sent for the doctor, whose prescription gradually brought her round and to the familys intense relief the immediate crisis seemed to have been averted.
The news had already reached the various inner apartments of the Rong-guo and Ning-guo mansions, and a maid soon arrived from Xi-fengs with one of her Ten Fragrances Revivifying Pills, followed by a maid with one of Lady Wangs Most Precious Pills.
Grandmother Jia, Lady Xing, Lady Wang and all the ladies from both mansions including You-shi all sent maids to inquire how she was getting on, but all agreed that her illness should be kept a secret from Bao-yu.
She went on taking various remedies for seven or eight days with no real improvement it was only when she remembered her own Cold Fragrance Pills and took three of these that she began to recover.
By the time Bao-yu learnt of her illness, she was already better and he did not go to visit her.
A letter arrived from Xue Ke, which Aunt Xue did not show to Bao-chai, for fear of upsetting her.
She read it herself and went straight to Lady Wang to beg for her help, at the same time giving her an account of Bao-chais condition.
After Aunt Xue had gone to bed, Lady Wang went in to plead with Jia Zheng.
With the higher-ranking officials a word is usually sufficient but these provincials clearly need a more tangible incentive, he said somewhat grimly.
We shall have to dip into our pockets.
Lady Wang went on to talk of Bao-chai The poor girl!
I feel responsible for her she is almost one of the family.
The sooner she and Bao-yu are married the better.
It is ruining her health the way things are.
1 agree, replied Jia Zheng.
But her family are very disorganized at present.
And besides, it is midwinter.
New Year will soon be upon us, and we shall all be busy putting our affairs in order.
1 propose the following timetable the betrothal can take place sometime during the winter early next year they can exchange presents and the ceremony itself should be fixed for sometime after Mothers birthday.
I should like you to put this to your sister.
I will, replied Lady Wang.
The next day she told Aunt Xue, who thought the proposal a good one.
After lunch the two of them went to see Grandmother Jia.
Have you just come over, my dear?
inquired Grandmother Jia of Aunt Xue, after the usual courtesies had been exchanged.
No, I was here yesterday, replied Aunt Xue.
But as it was rather late, I was not able to come and pay my respects.
Lady Wang repeated Jia Zhengs proposal to Grandmother Jia, who seemed very happy with it.
While they were talking, Bao-yu came into the room.
Have you had your lunch yet?
asked his grandmother.
Ive been home for lunch, he replied, and now Im on my way back to school.
I called in.
to see you, Grannie, and also I heard that Aunt Xue was here and wanted to pay my respects.
Turning to Aunt Xue he continued Is Cousin Chai quite better now?
Aunt Xue smiled.
Yes she is.
Bao-yu noticed that his arrival had caused a sudden lull in the conversation.
After sitting with them for a few minutes, he also noticed that Aunt Xue was not being as affectionate towards him as usual, and mused to himself Even if shes not in a good mood, I dont see why they have to stop talking to me altogether...
He set off for school greatly perplexed by what had happened.
That evening on his return he paid his usual evening calls and made his way to the Naiads House.
Lifting the door-curtain, he went in and was received by Nightingale.
Seeing that there was no one in the inner room, he asked Nightingale where Dai-yu had gone, and was informed that she had gone to call on Grandmother Jia.
Miss Lin heard that Mrs Xue was there, said Nightingale, and wanted to pay her respects.
Havent you been there this evening, Master Bao?
Yes, Ive just come from there, but I didnt see Miss Lin.
Wasnt she there?
No.
Where could she have gone?
Im not sure.
Bao-yu was about to set off again when he caught sight of the graceful figure of Dai-yu walking slowly towards the door with Snowgoose.
Youre back, coz!
he exclaimed, stepping aside to let her pass, and then following her inside.
She walked into the inner room.
Do come in and sit down, she said to Bao-yu.
Nightingale fetched another jacket and helped her into it.
She sat down and asked him Did you see Mrs Xue at Grandmothers?
Yes, I did, replied Bao-yu.
Did she mention me at all?
No.
And she didnt seem as friendly as usual towards me either.
When I asked after Cousin Chai she just smiled and hardly said anything.
I hope I havent offended her by not going over to visit Chai this last couple of days.
Dai-yu gave a short laugh.
Have you been to see her?
I didnt know she was ill at first, protested Bao-yu, I only heard a day or two ago, and I still havent been... Well thats certain to be the reason...
The truth is that neither Grandmother, Mother nor Father would let me go, and how could I without their permission?
I used to be able to drop round and see her ten times a day if I felt like it but now theyve closed the little side-gate and I have to go round by the front, which is such a performance.
But hows she supposed to know all that?
You know Chai shes sure to make allowances for me.
You shouldnt take it for granted, retorted Dai-yu.Perhaps she wont.
Its not as if its her mother whos been ill its Chai herself.
Think of all the poetry contests, all the pleasures youve shared with her in the past - the flowers, the wine, the parties.
Now shes separated from us, and you know the troubles her family are having, yet when she falls seriously ill you behave with complete indifference.
Shes bound to be offended.
Bao-yu Surely you dont mean she doesnt like me any more?
Dai-yu I have no idea.
I can only surmise how she might reasonably be expected to feel.
Bao-yu stared in silence.
Dai-yu ignored him, told one of her maids to put some more incense on the brazier, took out a book and began reading it.
After a minute or two Bao-yu frowned and stamped his foot fretfully.
Whats the point in my being alive?
The world would be an altogether better place without this thing called me Cant you see?
said Dai-yu.
Its the illusion of "me" that creates the illusion of "others", and a life lived under these twin illusions is bound to be beset with frustrations, fears, confusion, foolish dreams and a host of other obstacles and entanglements.
I wasnt speaking in earnest earlier on.
Mrs Xue was just in low spirits when you saw her.
There was no need for you to bring Cousin Chai into it.
Mrs Xue came over because of Cousin Pans court-case.
She was worried, and its hardly surprising she wasnt in the mood to entertain you.
You just allowed your imagination to run away with you and lead you astray.
Her words brought Bao-yu a sudden sense of enlightenment.
Of course!
he exclaimed with a laugh.
Thats exactly it!
Youre so much more perceptive than I am!
No wonder you defeated me with that koan last year, when I was so wrought up.
For all my pretensions, I need you to guide me to the truth.
This bumptious Buddha bows to your Single Flower!
In that case, said Dai-yu, seeing her opportunity, prepare yourself for another inquisition.
Bao-yu crossed his legs, brought the palms of his hands together, closed his eyes, pursed his lips and said Pray begin.
Dai-yu Now, let the First of my Propositions be that Cousin Chai likes you.
Proposition the Second she likes you not.
The Third she liked you a few days ago, but does no more.
The Fourth she does today, but will not do tomorrow.
The Fifth you like her, but she likes you not.
The Sixth and last she likes you, btit you like her not.
Consider these Six Propositions well.
For several minutes Bao-yu was completely silent.
Then suddenly he burst out laughing and cried If all the Seas of Paradise were mine, with my simple gourd Id be content.
Dai-yu What if your gourd is carried away by the stream?
Bao-yu Never!
Wherever the stream flows, the gourd will always hold its own course.
Dai-yu What if the flow comes to an end and your Pearl sinks?
Bao-yu "Like a catkin held fast in a puddle, -1387 This Zen Mind Not a partridge, gaily cavorting In the spring wind."
Dai-yu The first rule of Zen is not to tell lies.
Bao-yu But its the truth, so help me Buddha, the Dharma and the Holy Brotherhood.
Dai-yu lowered her head in silence.
She heard a cawcaw outside the window, and a crow flew up into the sky, wheeling towards the south-east.
Bao-yu What sort of an omen is that?
Dai-yu Our fates cannot be learned from the cries of birds.
Before Bao-yu could think of a reply, Ripple came into the room and said Master Bao, please hurry!
The Master sent someone to the Garden to ask if you were home from school yet, Aroma said you were, so youd better be quick!
Bao-yu jumped to his feet and hurried out in alarm.
Dai-yu did not try to detain him.
For the outcome, please read the next chapter.
CHAPTER 92 Qiao-jie studies the Lives of Noble Women and shows a precocious enthusiasm for Virtue Jia Zheng admires a Mother Pearl and reflects on the vicissitudes of Life What does Father want me for?
asked Bao-yu in some alarm, as they left the Naiads House.
Ripple smiled.
He doesnt.
Aroma told me to fetch you, and I was afraid you wouldnt come, so I made it up... Bao-yu was greatly relieved.
I would have come.
Theres really no need to scare me like that.
He arrived hack at Green Delights, to be interrogated by Aroma Where have you been all this time?
At Miss Lins.
I got delayed.
We were chatting about Aunt Xue and Cousin Chais illness.
What were you saying?
asked Aroma inquisitively.
Bao-yu described his Zen dialogue with Dai-yu.
You two are so silly, was Aromas comment.
Why cant you have a normal conversation about ordinary things, or discuss something nice like poetry?
What do you have to go talking about Zen for?
Youre not a monk!
You dont understand, replied Bao-yu.
We have our Zen secrets.
No one else could join in our conversations.
I dare say, returned Aroma, with a scornful sniff.
Im sure that if you two went on Zennifying at each other till you were both blue in the face, we should still be standing here quite as much in the dark as ever.
-347 When I was younger, said Bao-yu, ignoring her jibes, and Dai-yu was rather more childish in her ways, somehow I always managed to upset her by saying the wrong thing.
Nowadays I think more about what I say, and she takes offence less easily.
But all the same I have noticed that when we meet, which is not very often, as she seldom visits me and I have to spend so much time studying, we almost seem to have grown apart in some way.
I should hope so too, said Aroma.
Now that the two of you are older, of course you must learn to be more discreet.
Bao-yu nodded his head irritably.
I know - lets not talk any more about that now.
What I want to know is, has anyone come over from Grandmothers with a message?
No.
Then she must have forgotten!
said Bao-Vu.
Tomorrows the First of the Eleventh, isnt it?
Every year Grannie has a party and invites the whole family over to celebrate the beginning of the Lessening Cold season, when the days .tart to get longer.
Ive already asked for the day off school, iii fact.
What am I to do?
Should I go to school or not?
If I do, that will be my day-off wasted.
If I dont, and Father finds out, hell scold me for playing truant.
I think you should go, replied Aroma.
Youve lust started to make progress with your studies, and this is no time to be thinking of letting up.
You should be working as hard as you can.
Only yesterday I heard Her Ladyship say how well young Lan is doing at his studies.
When he gets back from school lie settles straight down to his texts and compositions all on his own, and never goes to bed till the small hours.
Youre his uncle, and several years older than him.
If you let him overtake you Her Old Ladyship will be very displeased.
So I say, off to school early in the morning.
Musk did not agree, however.
In this cold weather?
she objected.
lf you go now, theyll wonder why you asked for the day off in the first place.
It will look as though you were inventing an excuse to get off school.
I think you should make the most of it -347 and have a days rest.
If Her Old Ladyship has forgotten to have a party, we can always have one here instead... Now hell never go, and it will all be your fault, complained Aroma.
I believe in taking each day as it comes and having fun whenever you can, said Musk defiantly.
I dont believe in sucking up to people and working myself to death for a two-tael bonus every month like you do, Aroma dear... Aroma spat at her You little hussy!
Interfering in a serious discussion in such a silly manner... On the contrary, I was saying it for your sake, dear... For my sake?
Yes.
As soon as Master Baos gone to school, youll sit around mooning and moaning again, longing for him to come home and bring the sunshine back into your life.
Dont think you can fool me with that holier-than-thou attitude of yours... Aroma was on the point of giving Musk a large piece of her mind when one of Grandmother Jias maids arrived and said Her Old Ladyship says Master Baos not to go to school tomorrow.
Mrs Xues been invited round to spend the day, and all the young ladies will probably be coming too.
Miss Shi, Miss Xing and Mrs Zhus cousins have all been invited.
Its to celebrate the "lessening cold" or some such thing...
I told you so!
cried Bao-yu with glee before she could finish.
Its always been one of Grannies favourite occasions.
Now I can have the day off and a clear conscience!
Aroma said nothing, and Grandmother Jias maid returned.
Bao-yus recent stint of self-application had in fact left him more or less gasping for a respite of this sort.
He was also delighted to hear that Aunt Xue was coming, as that would surely mean a chance to see Bao-chai.
Lets have an early night, he said.
I want to be up first thing tomorrow.
The night passed uneventfully, and early next morning, true to his resolution, Bao-yu went to pay his respects to Grandmother Jia and then to his father and mother, to whom he reported that Grannie had given him the day off school.
Jia Zheng raised no objection and Bao-yu withdrew from his presence at a snails pace, waiting till he was a few yards from the study before breaking into a run and racing to Grandmother Jias apartment.
The other guests had not yet arrived, but he saw a nurse and a few younger maids enter the room with Xi-fengs little girl Qiao-jie, who walked up to her great-grandmother, paid her respects and said Mama told me to come and say my good-morning and sit with you first, Great-grannie.
She says shell be here by and by.
The old lady laughed.
Bless you child!
Here Ive been sitting since cockcrow, and none of my guests has turned up, except your Uncle Bao.
Qiao-jies nurse did some discreet prompting Say good morning to your uncle, Miss.
Qiao-jie did so, and Bao-yu returned the greeting.
My Mama wants to see you, Uncle Bao, said Qiao-jie.
She said so yesterday.
What about?
asked Bao-yu.
She says she wants to find out if Ive learnt my characters properly after all my lessons with Nannie Li.
I promised her I had and offered to read them out for her.
But she thought I was guessing and didnt believe me.
She said I couldnt have learnt them because all I do all day long is play.
But I dont think learning characters is hard.
I can even read my Girls Classic of Filial Piety - its ever so easy.
Mama thinks Im making it up, so she wants you to go over it with me when youve got the time.
Grandmother Jia laughed.
Bless you darling!
Your mother cant read a word, thats why she couldnt tell if you were cheating her or not.
Tomorrow your uncle Bao will go over it with you, and she can listen in.
Then shell have to believe you.
Hbw many characters do you know by now?
asked Bao-yu.
Over three thousand, replied Qiao-jie.
Ive finished the Girls Classic, and a fortnight ago I started on Lives of Noble Women Present and Past.
Do you understand it all?
asked Bao-yu.
If theres anything youre not clear about, you must tell me and Ill try and explain it for you.
What a nice idea, commented Grandmother Jia.
As her uncle, you should help her with her studies.
Bao-yu cleared his throat.
Let us leave aside, he began, such household names as the worthy queen and consorts of Good King Wen, and pass on to those two other Models of Queenly Capability -347 Queen Jiang, who in order to rebuke her sovereign for his excessive attentions removed all her ornaments and stood like a prisoner awaiting sentence and the Lady Hunchback of Wu-yan, whose earnest remonstrations restored order in the kingdom of Qi.
Yes, said Qiao-jie, and Bao-yu went on For Talent, we have the lady-historian Ban Zhao, Ban Jie-yu literary concubine of Emperor Cheng-di of Han, and the two poetesses Cai Wen-ji and Xie Dao-yun.
What about Paragons of Virtue?
asked Qiao-jie.
Now let me see, replied Bao-yu, for Virtue we have Meng Guang, the wife who wore a wooden hairpin and cotton skirts we have Bao Xuans wife, who drew her own water from the well, and Tao Kans mother, who cut off her hair to buy wine for her sons guests.
Their Virtue lay in their Acceptance of Poverty.
Qiao-jie nodded her head enthusiastically.
Then we have the famous cases of Hardship Endured, continued Bao-yu.
Princess Le-chang, who after a cruel separation was reunited with her husband by the stratagem of the broken mirror and Su Hui, who embroidered a lengthy palindrome to send to her husband exiled in the wastes of Tartary.
Then come the Paragons of Filial Piety Mu Lan marching to war in her ailing fathers place, Cao E throwing herself into the river after a fruitless search for her fathers corpse - and many others besides... Qiao-jie had become very quiet and thoughtful, and when Bao-yu went on to recount the tale of Lady Cao who after her husbands death cut off her nose to deter any further suitors, and other tales of Widowed Virtue, her little face became more serious than ever.
Thinking this might all be making her feel uncomfortable, Bao-yu introduced an apocryphal category of his own invention Then of course we have the Famous Beauties, romantic ladies such as Wang Zhao-jun, Xi-shi, Cherry Lips, Willow Waist, Crimson Fairy, Zhuo Wen-jun, Red Duster -all of these were...
Enough!
interrupted Grandmother Jia, seeing the blank look on Qiao-jies face.
No more!
Youve filled the poor childs head to overflowing.
How can she possibly remember all those names?
I recognize some of the names Uncle Bao mentioned, said Qiao-jie.
And his talk has certainly helped me to understand the ones I know.
I dont think we need bother going over the written characters for all those names, said Bao-yu.
Im sure you know them.
Mama said that our Crimson used to be one of your maids, said Qiao-jie out of the blue .
And she says she still hasnt found you anyone to replace her.
Shes thinking of giving you Mrs Lius daughter, Fivey I think her name is, if youre happy about it... Bao-yu was delighted to hear this and said with a grin Your mother doesnt have to ask me about things like that.
She makes all the decisions.
-347 He turned with a smile to Grandmother Jia.
My young niece shows every sign of growing up to be a second Cousin Feng.
Only I think she may be even cleverer, and will have the added advantage of being able to read.
Ive no objection to girls learning their letters, commented Grandmother Jia.
But needlework must always come first.
Nannie Liu teaches me embroidery, said Qiao-jie.
I can do flowers and chain-patterns.
Im not very good yet, but Im learning.
In a family like ours, said Grandmother J ia, we never need to do our own sewing, I know.
But its as well to know how.
Then you will never be at the mercy of others.
Yes, Great-grannie, Qiao-jie smilingly replied.
She would have welcomed some more Paragons of Virtue, but thought Bao-yu looked a little preoccupied and did not venture to ask.
What was preoccupying Bao-yu?
The answer lies in Qiao-jies mention of Fivey.
This attractive girl had been originally designated for Green Delights, but one obstacle after another had so far prevented her from entering service there.
First it had been illness then they had been wary of choosing a good-looking maid for Bao-yu in the puritanical phase that followed on Lady Wangs expulsion of Skybright.
A further opportunity of seeing her had presented itself when she and her mother had arrived with gifts during his secret visit to Skybright at her cousins house - and his earlier favourable impression of her had been confirmed.
She really was extremely pretty.
What marvellous luck that Xi-feng should have remembered her now, and was arranging for her to take Crimsons place!
While Bao-yu was day-dreaming, Grandmother Jia was becoming more and more impatient at the lateness of her guests and sent word to hurry them along.
A few minutes later the first contingent arrived Li Wan and her two cousins Wen and Qi, Tan-chun, Xi-chun, Shi Xiang-yun and Lin Dai-yu.
They all paid their respects to Grandmother Jia and greeted one another.
Aunt Xue had still not come, and Grandmother Jia sent for her.
Finally she arrived, accompanied by Baoq in.
Bao-yu paid his respects, and said hello to Bao-qm, wondering why it was that neither Bao-chai nor Xing Xiu-yan had come.
When Dai-yu asked outright, Why couldnt Cousin Chai come today?, Aunt Xue pretended that she was not feeling well.
Xiu-yan had stayed away because she knew that Aunt Xue her future mother-in-law would be there.
Bao-chais absence caused a momentary depression in Bao-yus spirits, which was however soon dispelled by the presence of Dai-yu.
Lady Xing and Lady Wang arrived shortly afterwards.
Xi-feng, who heard that they were there before her and was embarrassed at the thought of being late, sent Patience ahead to apologize for her.
Mrs Lian was meaning to come, but she has had a bit of a fever and wont be coming till later, said Patience.
If shes not feeling well, she neednt bother to come at all, said Grandmother Jia.
We ought to start our lunch now.
The maids moved the charcoal brazier to the back of the room and placed two tables in front of Grandmother Jias couch, at which the party now arranged itself for lunch.
After lunch they sat once more round the brazier chatting pleasantly, and there for the present we must leave them.
-347 What was really detaining Xi-feng?
It had at first been no more than her embarrassment at being later than Ladies Xing and Wang.
But this had been further complicated by the arrival of Brighties wife, who informed her that one of Ying-chuns women-servants had come to pay her respects.
The woman had come straight to Xi-fengs apartment and had not notified the main mansion of her presence.
Xi-feng was puzzled, and summoned her into the room.
Is your mistress well?
she asked.
Anything but well, replied the woman.
But thats not what Ive come about, maam.
Really it was Chesss mother who begged me to come and ask you for a favour.
But Chess has been dismissed, said Xi-feng.
What have her affairs to do with me now?
Its a long story, maam.
From the day she was dismissed Chess did nothing but cry her heart out.
Then one day that cousin of hers, her boy-friend Pan You-an, turned up again.
Her mother was terribly rude to him when she saw him, swearing that hed been her daughters ruin.
She took hold of him and tried to hit him, while he stood there meek and mild not saying a word.
Chess heard what was going on and came rushing out and cried defiantly "It was because of him I was dismissed - I dont need reminding!
I know he acted wrong!
But now that hes come back, why start hitting him?
You may as well strangle me instead..." "You shameless slut!"
cries the m6ther, "what do you want then?"
"A girl can only marry once," replies Chess defiantly.
"It was my mistake, I let him take me, and right or wrong Im his now and no one else shall have me.
If he could only have shown a little more courage then and stood by me instead of running away!
But Id wait for him now even if I had to die waiting.
Id rather die than let you marry me to someone else.
Now that hes here, ask him if hell take me for his wife.
If he still wants me, Ill make you my farewell kotow and you can forget that I ever existed.
Ill follow him to the ends of the earth.
Ill beg in the streets if need be!"
This put her mother in a terrible rage.
Weeping and cursing she cried "Youre my daughter and if I say you cant marry him then you cant, and thats that!"
But Chess was an obstinate creature.
No sooner had her mother said this than she took a run at the wall and dashed her head against it.
She split her skull open, the blood came pouring out and in a moment she was dead!
Her mother began howling, but it was too late.
Next she started screaming at him that hed have to pay with his life.
He replied - and this is the strangest part of the story -"Dont worry.
Im a wealthy man now.
I never forgot your daughter, and came back today to find her.
I have always been true to her.
To prove that Im telling no lie.
.
."
As he said this he brought out a casket from inside his gown, full of gold and precious stones.
One look at them and Chesss mother changed her tune.
"Why oh why didnt you say all this earlier?"
she asked.
"I know the ways of women," he replied, "how easily swayed they are by the idea of wealth.
Now at least I know for sure that she was a girl in a million.
These are ours," he added, handing her the casket.
"I will go and buy the coffin now, and see to it that she is buried properly."
The mother took the casket and left all the arrangements to her nephew.
She seemed to have quite forgotten about Chess.
When he returned, she saw to her astonishment that the bearers he had employed were bringing not one but two coffins.
She asked him what he needed two coffins for, and he replied with a strange laugh that one would not be enough.
He showed not the least sign of crying, and the mother decided his mind must have been deranged by the shock of his grief.
For a while he was busy preparing Chesss corpse, dry-eyed and silent, when all of a sudden before anyone had time to take in what was happening he pulled out a knife and slit his throat and that was the end of him.
The mother realized too late what a terrible thing she had done, and broke down in floods of tears.
The whole neighbourhood knows, and they want to report the case to the magistrate.
In her distress she begged me to ask you to use your influence to help her, maam, and said she would come herself and kotow to you in gratitude.
What a story!
exclaimed Xi-feng, aghast at this recital.
That fate should have brought two such examples of folly together!
Now I understand that look of calm indifference on her face when she was caught during the search of the Garden.
What a determined young thing she must have been at heart.
I dont really have time to meddle in such things, but your story has touched my heart!
Tell her mother that I will speak to Mr Lian and send Brightie to sort the thing out for her.
Xi-feng sent the woman on her way and herself departed to join the gathering at Grandmother Jias.
-347 One day, Jia Zheng was engrossed in a game of Go with one of his literary gentlemen, Zhan Guang.
It had been quite a level game, and the outcome now hung on a ko that was in progress on one corner of the board.
As they were playing, a page from the gate came in to report that Mr Feng had arrived and was waiting outside to see Sir Zheng.
See him in, instructed Jia Zheng.
The page did as bidden and Feng Zi-ying was shortly to be observed walking in through the inner gateway.
Jia Zheng hurried out to receive him and conducted him through to the study.
As he sat down, Feng noticed that they were playing Go.
Please carry on with your game, he said.
I shall be very happy to watch.
My poor play is hardly a worthy spectacle for so distinguished an observer, protested Zhan Guang with an obsequious smile.
You are too modest, said Feng.
Carry on please.
What brings you here today?
inquired Jia Zheng.
Oh, nothing of any importance, replied Feng.
Carry on, sir.
I shall benefit greatly from watching your play.
Jia Zheng turned to his partner.
As Feng is an old friend and has not come on any pressing business, we may as well finish our game first.
He can sit and watch.
Are you playing for stakes?
asked Feng.
We are, replied Zhan Guang.
Then silence!
On with the game!
I dont think we need be too strict about that, said Jia Zheng.
I may be a dozen taels up by the end, but I doubt very much if I shall see the colour of my money.
I think friend Zhan will have to stand us a few drinks instead.
An excellent idea, said Zhan with a laugh.
Are you and friend Zhan on a par, sir?
inquired Feng.
Jia Zheng laughed.
We used to play level, but he always lost, so I gave him a handicap of two.
He still loses.
And the trouble is, he thinks he can take his moves back all the time, and gets quite upset when I wave the rules at him.
Zhan laughed.
You exaggerate, Sir Zheng... Well, we shall see... On this note of light-hearted banter, they continued their game.
When it was finished and they counted up the pieces, Zhan was seven down.
It all depended on that last ko, commented Feng.
You gained the advantage, sir, because you were less vulnerable to a ko threat.
Jia Zheng turned to Feng.
Please forgive us.
How are you keeping?
It has been a long while since we last met, said Feng.
My visit today is partly of a social nature, and partly occasioned by the presence in the capital of a deputy-prefect from Kwangsi province, who is here for an audience with His Majesty and has brought with him four curios, some of them imported, that would make excellent palace-offerings.
The first is a folding screen of twenty-four panels, carved of pure blackwood.
Though the stone used for the carved inlay - landscapes, figures, buildings, birds and flowers - is not jade, it is a high quality serpentine.
Each panel has a palace scene, with fifty or sixty palace-ladies.
It is called "Spring Morning in the Han Palace".
The features, gestures and costumes are rendered with great clarity.
The finish is quite exquisite, the detail and composition of the highest order.
It would be perfect for the main hall of Prospect Garden, sir.
The second item is a large wall-clock over three feet high.
This is a most unusual item.
It has a little figure of a boy on the face that indicates the hour with a pointer, and inside it has a little mechanical orchestra.
Those two heavier articles I was not able to bring with me.
I have however brought the other two, which I think you will find quite fascinating.
Feng produced an embroidered casket wrapped in several layers of white damask-silk.
Unwrapping it, he raised the lid, removed the protective pad of silk-wool beneath it and displayed its contents.
In the top compartment of the casket lay a little glass container with a fitted lid.
In this container, on a piece of crimson silk that lined its inner casing of gold, lay a magnificent lustrous pearl, as large as a longan.
This, announced Feng, is known as a Mother Pearl.
He asked for a tray and Zhang Guang handed him a teatray of black lacquer, asking Will this do?
Perfectly, replied Feng, taking from the inner pocket of his gown a white silk bundle.
This too contained pearls, of an ordinary size, which he tipped out onto the tray.
He then placed the Mother Pearl in their midst and put the tray down on the table.
Like so many perfect drops of water the smaller pearls rolled across the tray towards the large central pearl.
And when Feng lifted the Mother, all the little ones clung to her.
Not a single one was left on the tray.
Amazing!
exclaimed Zhan Guang.
An interesting phenomenon, observed Jia Zheng.
And most appropriately named.
Where is the other casket?
asked Feng turning to his page, who promptly came forward with a rosewood casket held aloft in both hands.
The three men gathered round as it was opened.
On its lining of tiger-brocade lay a length of blue gauze-like material, many times folded.
And what is this?
asked Zhan Guang.
This, replied Feng, is called Byssus Net.
He took it from the casket and laid it on the table.
Folded as it was, it occupied a space no more than five inches long and less than half an inch thick.
Feng began to unfold it.
When he had done so a dozen times, it extended over the edge of the table.
There are still two folds to come, he explained.
To unfold it to its full extent we would need to hang it in a room with a high ceiling.
This fabric is woven from the Byssus, the so-called Mermaids Tears.
In extreme heat it would make a perfect fly and mosquito-net for use in a large reception hall.
As you can see, it is extremely light and transparent.
Please do not unfold it fully, said Jia Zheng.
It might prove hard to fold again.
Feng and Zhan Guang carefully folded the net and replaced it in its casket.
The price being asked for these four curios is really very reasonable, said Feng.
I think he would be willing to part with the four for twenty thousand taels.
Ten thousand for the Mother Pearl, five thousand for the Byssus Net and two thousand five hundred each for the screen and striking clock.
We.
could not possibly buy them, Im afraid, said Jia Zheng.
But with your connections in the palace, said Feng, surely they would make an ideal I dare say they would, replied Jia Zheng.
I dare say all sorts of things would.
But we simply havent the money.
I would like Lady Jia to see them, all the same.
By all means.
Jia Zheng sent a page to fetch Jia Lian, who was instructed to take the pearl and the precious net through to Grandmother Jias apartment.
He also sent a servant to invite Lady Xing, Lady Wang and Xi-feng to come and view them.
There are two other items, Jia Lian explained to the ladies.
A folding screen and a musical clock.
The whole lot is going for twenty thousand taels.
What!
said Xi-feng sharply.
I grant you theyre fine pieces.
Hut we definitely havent the cash to spare.
Besides were not like provincial viceroys and governors, who are expected to make such offerings.
No over the years Ive come to the conclusion that the most sensible way to secure our financial future is to invest in land and property-trust-land for provision of sacrificial funds, and free burial-grounds for the clan with permanent caretakers quarters.
Such things would be there for the family to fall back on in hard times, an insurance against ruin.
I dont know if Grannie, Father and Mother agree with me or not?
Of course, if Sir Zheng and Father want to buy these things, its entirely their decision.
Grandmother Jia led the chorus in Xi-fengs support.
Youre absolutely right, my dear.
Give them back to me then, said Jia Lian grumpily.
Sir Zheng only sent me to show them to Grandmother as a possible palace-offering.
No one said anything about buying them for ourselves.
Trust you to pour cold water on the whole idea before Grandmother has even had a chance to speak!
Jia Lian returned to the study with the curios, and reported that Grandmother Jia did not wish to buy them.
No one denies their quality, he said to Feng Zi-ying.
But we just cant afford them.
Ill keep my eyes open though, and if I come across a likely buyer Ill definitely let you know.
Feng packed them away again, evidently disappointed.
He sat and chatted for a while without much enthusiasm, and soon made motions of leaving.
Wont you stay to dinner?
asked Jia Zheng.
I have already taken up too much of your time... Not at all.
We should be delighted.
As they were speaking Jia She was announced.
He was already in the room, and after greeting Feng engaged him in conversation for a few minutes.
Presently wine was served and various delicacies were set on the table.
After the fourth or fifth round of wine, the subject of the curios came up again.
Actually its rather hard to sell stuff like this, confessed Feng.
The market is restricted to the few illustrious families such as yours.
Oh come, I am sure you will find someone, Jia Zheng consoled him.
Besides, observed Jia She in a rather maudlin tone, we are not exactly the great and glorious house we once were, you know.
Nothing but a hollow facade... How is Mr Zhen over at Ning-guo House by the way?
asked Feng.
I saw him the other day and in the course of conversation he mentioned this new wife of his sons.
Not a patch on his first, so he was saying.
Who is she anyway?
I never did ask her name.
Shes a Hu-theyre an old local family.
Her father was once Taotai of the Metropolitan Circuit, Jia Zheng informed him.
Oh, I know Intendant Hu.... said Feng.
Heard that he lets some pretty rum things go on in his house too.
Still, the main thing is that the gal should have turned out all right.
I heard from someone at the Grand Secretariat that Yu-cun is to be promoted again, put in Jia Lian.
Really?.
Im glad to hear that, said Jia Zheng.
Has it been made official yet?
Most probably, said Jia Lian.
Yes, I heard the same myself when I was at the Board of Civil Office earlier today, said Feng.
Am I right in thinking that he is a relation of yours, sir?
He is, answered Jia Zheng.
A close one?
It is a long story, said Jia Zheng.
He comes originally from Hu-zhou in Chekiang.
He left home and was lodging in Soochow, eking out a rather unsatisfactory existence, when he was befriended by a gentleman named Zhen Shi-yin, who provided the means or him to better himself.
Yu-cun later went on to become a palace graduate, and passed out with flying colours and an immediate posting as a magistrate in one of the provinces.
He took one of this benefactors maidservants as his concubine she is now, I believe, his principal wife.
Old Zhen himself was reduced to destitution by a strange series of calamities, and finally disappeared without trace.
We only came to know Yu-cun, continued Jia Zheng, when my brother-in-law, Lin Ru-hai, who at that time was the Yangchow Salt Commissioner, engaged him as private tutor for his daughter - this was after his dismissal.
Then Yu-cun learned of the general reinstatement for dismissed officials and planned to come up to the capital to take advantage of it.
My niece - Ru-hais daughter - was, as it so happened, just about to come and visit us here, so her father persuaded her tutor to travel with her and act as her escort.
He also sent me a letter of recommendation, asking me to put in a good word for him where I could.
I formed a favourable impression of him, and from then on we saw a good deal of one another.
One thing I remember finding most extraordinary about Yu-cun he seemed to have familiarized himself with every detail of our family history.
There was nothing he did not know.
Who our ancestors were, how they won their titles, every ramification of the Rong-guo and Ning-guo family trees, exactly how many of us there are, who we all are, where we all live, what we all do - why, he was a mine of information!
I liked him for it, I must say.
Jia Zheng smiled, and went on Hes done extremely well for himself in the last few years too.
Promoted from Prefect to Censor, then in a few years to Vice-president of the Board of Civil Office, then President of the Board of War.
He was demoted three grades for some incident, but now it seems he is to be promoted again.
How hard it is to predict the vicissitudes of human life, commented Feng Zi-ying.
And yet there is a pattern in all things, said Jia Zheng.
Take your p earl for instance.
The big one is like a man blessed with fortune the little ones are his dependants, sheltering in the shade of his influence.
If the big one goes, then the little ones are helpless.
If the head of a family is in trouble, his wife and children are taken from him, his relations are left destitute, even his friends he may see no more.
Prosperity may crumble in the twinkling of an eye, like the passing of a spring cloud or the falling of an autumn leaf.
What joy is there in public life?
My kinsman Yu-cun has had a comparatively easy time of it.
But take a case nearer home, the Zhen family, like our own in so many respects .
They too were ennobled for their services to the Throne.
Their style of life has always been very like ours.
We used to see a great deal of them.
I remember not many years ago when they were here in the capital, they sent one of their men round to convey their respects, and all seemed well.
Yet not long afterwards their family estate was confiscated, and goodness alone knows what has become of them now.
We have had no news of them for so long.
My heart goes out to them.
Whats this about a pearl?
asked Jia She.
Jia Zheng and Feng Zi-ying gave him a description of the Mother Pearl.
We need have no fears, said Jia She, resuming the previous topic of conversation.
Nothing can happen to us.
Of course not, sir, said Feng, with Her Grace to protect your interests at Court, with such enviable connections and such a host of relations, and with a family that from Lady Jia down to the younger generation has such an impeccable record... Granted, said Jia Zheng somewhat grimly.
But our respectability is more than balanced by our lack of ability and positive achievement.
We are living on borrowed time, and one day it will run out.
Do lets put an end to this depressing conversation, said Jia She, and have another drink.
They did so, and after a few more rounds dinner was served.
After dinner, tea was brought in and Fengs page came in and murmured something in his masters ear.
Feng took his leave.
What was that you said?
asked Jia She of the page.
Its snowing, sir, and theyve sounded the first evening watch.
Jia Zheng sent a servant out who came back to report that the snow was indeed already more than an inch thick on the ground.
I hope your two curios are well wrapped?
said Jia Zheng.
They are, replied Feng.
Dont forget, if you change your minds, Im sure we can come to some agreement about the price.
Ill bear it in mind, said Jia Zheng.
I shall wait to hear from you then.
Its cold - please dont bother to see me out.
Goodbye.
Jia She and Jia Zheng instructed Jia Lian to accompany Feng Zi-ying to the gate.
For the sequel, please read the following chapter.
CHAPTER 93 A Zhen retainer seeks shelter in the Jia household And shady activities are revealed behind the Iron Threshold When Feng Zi-ying had gone, Jia Zheng sent for one of the men on the gate.
I see theres an invitation here from the Earl of Lin-an, he said.
Do you know what sort of an occasion it is?
I did inquire, sir, replied the servant.
Its only the arrival of a new company of actors at the Prince of Nan-ans.
They are said to be first-class, and his lordship wants to celebrate by putting on a dramatic entertainment for a couple of days.
Just an informal party for friends, nothing requiring a presentation I should say, sir.
As the servant was speaking Jia She came over.
Will you be going tomorrow?
he asked his brother.
I really ought to, replied Jia Zheng.
The Earl has always been most affable.
Another servant came in from the gate and reported to Jia Zheng Theres a clerk from the Ministry, sir will you please go in to the office tomorrow.
The President has some important business for you, so could you be there a little earlier than usual.
This received a brief acknowledgement.
from Jia Zheng.
Two family servants came in next, wh6se job it was to collect the land rents from the Rong-guo country estates.
They paid their respects, made their kotow and stood humbly to one side.
Are you from Hao-family village?
asked Jia Zheng.
Yes, sir.
Jia Zheng did not inquire any further into their business.
He and Jia She talked a little longer and then both left for their apartments, Jia She accompanied by servants bearing lanterns.
When they had gone, Jia Lian asked the rent-collectors for their report.
Weve been as fast as we could with the tenth-month rents, sir, replied one of them.
They were due to arrive tomorrow, but we ran into trouble a few miles from town.
Our wagons were seized by a patrol and everything was tipped out onto the ground.
They didnt let us get a word in.
I tried to explain that it was rent-produce for Rong-guo House, not ordinary goods in transit, but they couldnt have cared less.
And when I told our wagoner to keep on going, some of the highway-patrol beat him up and impounded two wagons.
Ive come on ahead to report, sir.
The only thing now is for you to send someone to the local yamen and demand our goods back.
And youd be doing everyone a good turn, if you had those hooligans in the highway-patrol brought to order.
You may not know it, but the regular goods-wagons have an even worse time with them.
They tip out the contents and make off with them, and if the poor old wagoner dares to open his mouth in protest, he has his brains beaten out.
What a preposterous state of affairs!
exclaimed Jia Lian.
He wrote a note at once and handed it to one of his men.
Take this to the yamen responsible for impounding the wagons.
We want our wagons and all our goods back at once.
If we discover the smallest thing missing therell be trouble.
He sent for Zhou Rui.
Zhou was out, so he sent for Brightie instead, only to be informed that Brightie had gone out at midday and had still not returned.
The lazy bastards!
Theyre never here when theyre wanted!
All they do from one year to the next is slack around at our expense!
Shouting to his pages to find them both at once, Jia Lian retired to his apartment for the night.
Next morning brought a reminder from the Earl of Linan.
I shall be busy at the Ministry, said Jia Zheng to his brother.
And Lian will have to stay here to sort out this trouble with the rent-wagons.
You had better take Baoyu with you for the day.
Jia She nodded.
Very well.
Jia Zheng sent word to Bao-yu that he was to accompany his uncle to the Earl of Lin-ans theatre party.
Bao-yu was thrilled.
He changed, and choosing three of his pages, Tealeaf, Sweeper and Ploughboy, to go with him, came out to pay his morning respects to Jia She.
They climbed into their carriages and were soon at the Earls palace.
A gateman went in to announce their arrival and returned after a brief interval to escort them in.
Jia She led Bao-yu into the main courtyard, which was packed with a noisy throng.
They paid their respects to the Earl and exchanged civilities with the other guests before sitting down and joining in the flow of light-hearted conversation.
Before long the manager of the troupe came forward with two playbills, an ordinary one and a fancy one in the form of an ivory tablet, and saluting his patrons by dropping one knee to the ground Manchu-style, announced Will the gentlemen please select their favourite plays?
Passing along the distinguished company, he came to Jia She, who made his choice.
Then catching sight of Bao-yu, he hurried.
straight towards him, saluted him most elegantly and said Will Master Bao be so good as to choose two from our list?
Ba6-yu studied his face.
Those powder-white.
cheeks, those lips as red as rouge, that fresh lustre, like a lotus on the water, that lilting gait, like a jade tree swaying in the wind - why, it was his old friend Jiang Yu-han!
Bao-yu remembered having heard of his arrival in town with his own troupe.
He also remembered wondering why he had still not seen anything of him.
Meeting him now in such formal company,.
he felt unable to rise spontaneously to his feet, and had to content himself with asking When did you arrive?
Jiang glanced quickly from left to right, then with a confidential smile whispered Surely you knew I was here?
Bao-yu felt too inhibited to continue the conversation, and made his choice of plays in some confusion.
When Jiang returned backstage, the guests started talking about him.
He used to play soubrette parts, volunteered one of them.
Now that hes older, hes given that up and turned manager.
He manages the Princes resident troupe.
Before that hed already started playing young male leads.
He made quite a lot of money, and bought two or three shops.
But nothing could keep him from the stage, so he has turned actor-manager.
Someone asked He must surely be married by now?
Not yet, came the reply.
He has strong views on the subject.
"Marriage," says he, "is a once-and-for-all thing, a lifetime affair, and not to be trifled with."
His bride may be rich or poor, of high or low birth, but the one thing she must possess is talent to match his.
So, hes remained single to this day.
I wonder who the lucky girl will be, thought Bao-yu secretly to himself, to marry such a fine fellow... By now the plays had started.
They performed in a variety of styles the lyrical kun-qu, the noisier gao-qiang and yi-qiang, and the clapper style fr6m Shensi to the west.
It was a splendid show.
At midday the tables were set out, and wine and food were served.
After an act or two of the afternoon programme, Jia She showed signs of wanting to leave.
But the Earl came over and pressed him to stay The day is still young, he said, and I understand that Bijou intends to perform a scene from The Queen of the Flowers, their piece de resistance.
When Bao-yu heard this, he secretly prayed for his uncle to stay.
Jia She sat down again.
It was soon time for The Queen of the Flowers, with Jiang Yu-han playing Master Qin, the humble oil-vendor.
The scene in which he sits up with the drunken flower-girl Jasper Lute had just the right degree of erotic tenderness, while the drinking duet was exactly as it should be, amoroso delidoso.
Bao-yu hardly noticed Jasper Lute.
He only had eyes for Master Qin.
That ringing vocal timber, that crystal diction, that subtle tempo were too much for his sensitive soul.
He was enraptured.
By the end of the performance he knew beyond any shadow of doubt that Jiang Yu-han was an artist of True Feeling, and not to be compared with the common run of actors.
It reminded him of a passage from the chapter On Music, in the Liber Ritualis Feeling stirs within and is ernbodied in sound.
When that sound is fashioned by art, music is born.
No wonder true lovers of music make so much of "Knowing the Sound", entering into the essence of the music, thought Bao-Yu to himself.
I must get to the heart of it.
Poetry conveys feeling, but music strikes to the very core.
From now on I must study it in earnest.
He was awoken from this rapture by Jia She, who had had enough and this time left before his host had another chance to detain him.
Bao-yu had no choice but to follow in his uncles steps.
On their arrival home, Jia She went straight to his own apartment, while Bao-yu went to report to his father, who had lust returned from the Board and was discussing with Jia Lian the affair of the impounded rent-wagons.
I sent a man with a note today, Jia Lian was saying.
But the local mandarin was out.
The gateman said that his master knew nothing of the affair and had certainly never issued a warrant in connection with it.
He said it was a piece of flagrant corruption and extortion on the part of the "scum in the highway-patrol".
As this was Jia family property, he said he would have the culprits found and dealt with, and gave his personal guarantee that we would have the vehicles and goods back by tomorrow.
If we discover a single thing missing, we are to report to his master and stern measures will be taken.
But at present, as his master was away, he asked us as a special favour to be discreet and not bother him with it.
How can such a thing be done without any kind of warrant?
said Jia Zheng.
You dont seem to realize, Uncle, said Jia Lian, that this sort of thing goes on all the time.
I think we shall probably have our goods back tomorrow all right.
Business concluded, Jia Lian left the room.
Bao-yu now came forward and reported on his day at the Earls.
His father asked him a few questions, then sent him on to Grandmother Jias.
Jia Lian had not forgotten yesterdays unaccounted absence on the part of the two menservants, and on leaving Jia Zheng he gave orders for a general assembly of the staff.
This time there was a prompt response.
After a few preliminary words of reprimand Jia Lian called forward Lai Da, the chief steward.
Fetch the general register for all household departments and call the roll.
Then I want you to write out an announcement.
I want everyone to know that if I detect a single case of absence without leave, or failure to come when sent for, or negligence in any other respect whatsoever, I shall have the culprit immediately flogged and dismissed.
Yes sir!
replied Lai Da several times.
He went out and relayed this to the assembled servants, who all took due note.
Not long afterwards there was an unexpected arrival at the main gate.
A man in a felt hat, blue cotton gown and sturdy, leather-patched slippers approached and bowed to the janitors on duty.
They eyed him up and down and asked him where he hailed from.
From the Zhen family in the South, was his reply.
I have with me a letter from my Master, which I beg you to take in to Sir Zheng.
When they learned that he was from the Zhen family, the men stood up and made room for the newcomer to sit down.
You must be tired.
Here, sit down.
Well take your letter in for you.
One of them went in to report his arrival and deliver the letter to Jia Zheng.
He opened it, and this is what he read My dear Zheng, Over many generations our two families have established closeness of friendship and mutual understanding.
We have always looked up to your illustrious house with the profoundest respect.
Although for my heinous crime a thousand deaths would have been insufficient punishment, thanks td an exceptional act of clemency, I have been favoured with a mild sentence of banishment to the frontier.
In the general dispersion of our family establishment, I have a manservant called Bao Yong, who has served me well and though lacking any particular skill, is a thoroughly trustworthy and dependable fellow.
If you could see your way to employing him in some humble capacity in your household, my gratitude would be unbounded.
I shall write again when I can.
With sincere regards, Your fellow-graduate and friend, Zhen Ying-jia.
Jia Zheng smiled wrily as he reached the end of the letter.
Here we are overstaffed ourselves, he mused aloud to himself, and the Zhens must send us one of theirs.
We shall have to try and find room for him somehow, I suppose.
He turned to the gateman.
Send this fellow in to see me, and find somewhere for him to stay.
There must be some way in which he can make himself useful.
The gateman went out, and came back with Bao Yong, who prostrated himself before Jia Zheng and performed a threefold kotow.
Rising to his feet, he declared solemnly My Master presents his greetings, sir.
Then falling on one knee, he continued Bao Yong offers his humble respects, sir.
Jia Zheng inquired after Zhen Ying-jia, and surveyed Bao Yong.
He was something over five feet tall, broad-shouldered and strongly built, with heavy brows and prominent eyes, a protruding forehead, a long beard and a rough, dark complexion.
He stood with his arms hanging respectfully at his side.
Have you been with the Zhens since birth?
asked Jia Zheng.
Or have you only served them for a number of years?
Bao Yong Since birth, sir.
Jia Zheng Why do you wish to leave them now?
Bao Yong 1t was not my wish at all, sir.
But the Master insisted that I should, and said that Id find things here very much the same as with them.
That is why I have come here.
Jia Zheng Your master has not deserved the hardship to which he and his family have been reduced.
Bao Yong It is not my place to say such things but I think the Master is far too good a man, far too honest in his dealings with people.
That is what has brought this trouble on him.
Jia Zheng But honesty is a great virtue.
Bao Yong Too much of it doesnt always go down well.
Some people are irked by it.
Jia Zheng with a smile If that is the case, I feel confident that the Supreme Providence will see justice done.
Bao Yong was about to say something when Jia Zheng went on Am I right in thinking that your master has a son called Bao-yu?
Bao Yong That is correct, sir.
Jia Zheng Tell me, does he work hard at his studies?
Bao Yong Thats a very interesting question sir.
Theres quite a story behind it.
In a way our Master Bao-yu is just like his father, very single-minded, very - how shall I say - dedicated.
His life has until recently been dedicated to playing with his sisters and lady cousins.
The Master and Her Ladyship have given him quite a few thrashings, all to no effect.
A year or so ago, however, when Her Ladyship was away on a trip to the capital, our Master Bao fell seriously ill.
He had been given up for dead for a long while in fact, and the Master himself was nearly dead with worry.
His funeral clothes were even laid out in readiness.
In the end he recovered, thank goodness.
When he came round, he said that he had been through a great archway, where he met a lady, who showed him a temple full of cabinets.
And in these cabinets were a number of registers, which he saw.
Then he went into a room full of girls, who turned into ghosts and skeletons.
He was scared and cried out, and that was when he woke up.
After this experience of his, his father had him treated by a doctor and slowly but surely he became well.
This time he was indulged and allowed to play with his sisters and cousins to his hearts content.
But who would have thought it - he had completely changed his ways!
None of his old games appealed to him any more.
Now it was all books and studying.
And nobody could distract him.
Hes even learning to help the Master with family business.
Jia Zheng was silent, lost in thought.
Then he said You may go now.
When we have need of you we will find you a proper post.
Thank you sir, said Bao Yong, and withdrew from the room.
He was shown to his temporary quarters by some of the servants, and there we must leave him.
A few days later, Jia Zhehg rose early and was passing through the main gate on his way to the Board, when he noticed the porters and servants huddled together in some sort of confabulation.
They seemed to be trying to attract his attention, but at the same time were evidently too afraid to speak out, and could only whisper among themselves.
He called one of them over and asked Whats going on?
Whats all this muttering in corners about?
We darent tell, sir.
.
.
replied the servant.
Jia Zheng Darent tell what?
Servant Well sir, this morning when I got up to open the gate, I found a sheet of white paper stuck to it with a lot of rude words written on it... Jia Zheng Whats this?
What sort of thing do you mean?
Servant Something about sordid goings-on at the Temple of the Iron Threshold, sir.
Jia Zheng Show it to me!
Servant I tried to peel it off in one piece, sir, but it was stuck on so firmly that I couldnt.
So I copied the wording down instead and then scrubbed it clean.
Li De has just found another one.
He showed it to me, and it says much the same.
Thats the truth, sir.
He handed Jia Zheng the most recent specimen.
Jia Zheng took it and read -1387 Jia Qins a lucky young sod Hes in charge of the family nunnery.
All those girls for just one bod - whoring, gamblng, loads of funnery!
Now that rakes are running the place, Rong-guo House is a public disgrace!
Jia Zheng was boiling.
His head began to swim, his eyes to swirl.
Telling the servants at the gate not to breathe a word of this, he gave secret orders to search every alleyway in the neighbourhood for any further posters, and sent at once for Jia Lian, who came hurrying over.
Tell me, asked Jia Zheng, have you ever personally checked the arrangements made for the nuns and Taoist novices lodged at the Iron Threshold Temple?
Not personally, no, replied Jia Lian.
That has always been young Qins responsibility.
And do you know if he is competent or not?
asked Jia Zheng.
It sounds from what you say as though he must have slipped up over some detail, said Jia Lian.
Take a look at this!
Jia Lian read the poster and exclaimed Why, this is an outrage" The words were no sooner out of his mouth than Jia Rong came in with a letter bearing the inscription For the attention of Sir Jia Zheng - Private and Confidential.
Jia Zheng opened it and found it to be an anonymous letter couched in the same terms as the posters.
Tell Lai Da, he instructed them, to take three or four carts at once to the Temple of the Iron Threshold and bring all the novices back here.
This must be kept absolutely secret.
He is to say that they are wanted at the Palace.
Lai Da was given his orders and set off.
Now when the twenty-four Buddhist and Tabist novices first arrived at the Temple, they had been put under the surveillance of the older Sisters, who gave them their daily lessons and rehearsed them in their liturgies.
As the months went by and their services were not once called upon by the Imperial Concubine, the girls became slacker and slacker in their studies.
They also began to grow up and show a greater awareness of life.
Jia Qin himself was a bit of a young fop, and reckoned that for a pretty young actress such as Parfumee the decision to enter a nunnery must have been a childish whim.
She became the first object of his advances, over at Water-moon Priory.
To his great surprise he discovered that she was in earnest and not at all willing to comply with his wishes.
So he turned his attentions back to the Temple, to two of the young novices, a Buddhist nun called Thurible and a little Taoist nun called Crucible, both extremely attractive and much more cooperative.
Many a pleasant hour they spent with him, playing music and singing songs.
In the middle of the tenth month, Jia Qin arrived as usual with the monthly allowance.
He had no intention of leaving straight away and announced to them all I have brought you your months allowance.
Im afraid I shall be too late to catch the city-gates tonight and shall have to find somewhere to stay here.
On such a chilly night as this, what could be better than for us to share the wine and the few nuts and things that I happen to have with me and make a little party of it?
The girls were thrilled and immediately started putting out the tables.
They even invited the nuns from Water-moon Priory to join them.
Parfumee was the only one to abstain.
After a few bowls of wine, Jia Qin suggested a drinking game.
Thurible and her friends replied None of us can play those games.
Why dont we play guess-fingers instead?
Loser to drink a bowl - that would be great fun!
Its only just past midday!
objected one of the Sisters.
It will never do to start rioting about at this hour.
I suggest we take a little drink or two now and then those who wish to may leave.
Those of you who want to keep Mr Qin company can drink to your hearts content this evening.
I shall turn a blind eye.
Just at that moment, however, one of the lay-sisters came bursting into the room.
Quickly everyone!
Break it up!
Steward Lais here, from Rong-guo House!
The girls rushed around tidying up, and told Jia Qin to hide.
He was by now well in his cups, and bragged Why should I hide?
Im here to deliver the months allowance... Lai Da was in at the door before he had finished speaking.
Signs of the incipient orgy were all too visible, and Lai Das loyal breast filled with rage.
He was under the Masters instructions to keep the whole operation quiet, however, and inquired with a nonchalant smile Would Mr Qin be here by any chance?
Qin lurched to his feet.
Why Mr Lai!
What brings you here?
Pleased to find you here, sir, said Lai Da.
We must get the young ladies ready as quickly as possible, and take them back to town.
Theyre wanted at the Palace.
Jia Qin and the girls wanted to know more, but Lai Da merely said Come along now.
Its getting late.
We must hurry or we shall miss the gates.
So they all bundled into the carts that were waiting for them, and Lai Da mounted his sturdy mule and led the convoy into town.
We must return to Jia Zheng.
Usually so punctilious in his attendance at the Board, the Master was sitting alone in his study, breathing heavily and brooding over the anonymous posters.
Jia Lian hovered within earshot, not daring to leave the house.
At last there came the sound of someone at the gate and a messenger came in to report Excellency Zhang is indisposed, and will Sir Zheng please replace him this evening at the Board?
Jia Zheng had been expecting Lai Da at any nioment.
It was most annoying to be called away like this.
Jia Lian came in.
Lai Da didnt leave until after lunch, Uncle, and the Temple is over eight miles from town.
He wont be back till eleven oclock at the earliest.
As you are on call for this evening I think you should go.
When Lai Da gets back, I shall tell him to keep the nuns locked up and not to say anything until you have had an opportunity of settling the affair yourself tomorrow.
If Qin comes, I shall say nothing.
We shall see how he reacts when you speak to him tomorrow.
It seemed reasonable enough, and Jia Zheng left with some reluctance for the Board.
As soon as he had gone Jia Lian set off back to his own apartment, brooding as he went on what he was going to say to Xi-feng.
He held her to blame for having given Qin this job in the first place.
But then he remembered that she was ill and relented.
He had better not be too hard on her.
He slackened his pace.
Meanwhile the news had spread among the servants.
It soon reached the ears of Patience, who immediately went to tell her mistress.
Xi-feng had had a bad night anyway and was feeling very low.
Her feeble state intensified her ever-present anxiety about the various misdeeds that lay on her conscience, in particular her unscrupulous dealings at Water-moon Priory.
When she learnt of the anonymous poster, she sat up with a jolt and asked Patience What did it say?
Patience thoughtlessly replied Oh, nothing much.
Something to do with the nuns at Water-moon Priory...
This nearly put paid to Xi-feng.
Her guilty conscience spelled out for her the rest of the story.
She was undone!
A spasm of terror quite deprived her of the power of speech.
She felt the heat surging within her, her eyes began to swim.
She started coughing and collapsed on her bed, her eyes staring rigidly in front of her.
Patience called out in great agitation I meant the nuns at the Temple of the Iron Threshold!
Something to do with the novices.
Theres no cause for you to take on so, ma am.
The words Iron Threshold brought Xi-feng back to her senses.
Stupid creature!
Which is it, for heavens sake?
The nuns at the Temple or the Priory?
At first I thought it was the Priory, replied Patience.
Then I found out it was the Temple.
Thats why I got it wrong just now.
I thought it must have been the Temple, said Xi-feng.
The Priory has nothing to do with me.
But I was the one who gave Qin the job of looking after the nuns at the Temple.
Hes probably been making off with some of the money.
No, maam, said Patience, I dont think its anything to do with money.
I heard the word filth mentioned several times.
Well thats nothing whatever to do with me.
Where s Mr Lian got to?
Hes been in ever since he heard that the Master was in a rage, replied Patience.
When I heard what sort of an unpleasant affair it was, I told all the servants to keep quiet about it.
I hope their Ladyships havent heard.
The Master has sent Lai Da to bring all the girls back from the Temple.
Ill send someone out to see whats happened.
Now you settle down, maam.
Youre not well and shouldnt worry your head over such things.
Just at that moment Jia Lian came in.
Xi-feng would have liked to ask him for more details, but thought better of it when she saw the look on his face.
He was obviously in a bad mood and she would be best advised to feign ignorance.
Jia Lian had not finished eating his dinner when Brightie came in.
Lai Das back, sir.
Is Mr Qin with him?
Yes, sir.
Tell Lai Da the Master has had to go to the Board tonight.
Hes to put the girls in the Garden for the time being, and tomorrow when the Master gets back well see about sending them to the Palace.
Tell Mr Qin to wait for me in the inner library.
Brightie disappeared.
Jia Qin went as instructed to the library.
On his way he noticed a lot of pointing and muttering among the servants.
He could not make out what it was all about, but it was clearly something to do with him.
This was beginning to seem less and less like a summons from the Palace.
He would have dearly liked to ask one of them what was going on, but felt too uneasy to do so and could only wait there in ever increasing suspense.
When Jia Lian arrived, Jia Qin greeted him and stood nervously with his hands at his side.
I wonder what Her Grace requires the nuns for at such short notice?
he ventured.
I had to race all the way here.
Luckily I was out there anyway today with the monthly allowance and was able to come back with Lai Da.
But Im sure you know all about that.
All about what!
Youre the one that should know!
Jia Qin could make neither head nor tail of this, and stood there tongue-tied.
A fine mess youve made of things!
continued Jia Lian.
Sir Zhengs in a fuming rage!
But Ive done nothing!
protested Jia Qin.
Ive delivered the allowance on time every month, the girls know their services by heart... Jia Lian could see that he knew nothing of what had happened.
He and Qin had played together as children, and he sighed.
You ass!
Take a look at this!
He pulled one of the posters from his boot-flap and threw it in Jia Qins direction.
Jia Qin picked it up and read it.
His face grew ashen pale.
Who.
could have done this?
Ive never done anyone any harm.
Why should anyone want to blacken my name like this?
I only go there once a month with the money - this is all lies!
Sir Zheng will be very hard on me, I know he will!
I shall die of shame!
If my mother finds out, shell flog me to death!
He checked that there was no one else in the room and knelt before Jia Lian.
Uncle!
Please help me!
Please!
He went on knocking his head on the ground, tears streaming down his face.
Several thoughts were going through Jia Lians mind.
Debauchery is Uncle Zhengs pet abomination.
If he finds out that there really has been any such thing well be in for a major scene.
It will only help smear the family name, besides.
And give the anonymous author the greatest satisfaction, and then we can expect more of such p6sters in the future.
No, why not take advantage of Uncle Zhengs absence, talk to Lai Da and hush the whole thing up.
So far theres no proof that anything ever happened.
And no one need be any the wiser.
Having reached this decision, Jia Lian spoke to Jia Qin again Theres no point in trying to fool me.
Dont think I dont know about every one of your mucky little pranks.
Now listen if you want to get out of this, you must deny everything, absolutely everything, no matter how hard Sir Zheng presses you.
Do you understand?
Now get up off the ground, you pathetic creature!
Jia Lian sent for Lai Da and asked him for his opinion.
As a matter of fact, sir, said Lai Da, Mr Qin was behaving in a very unbecoming manner.
When I arrived at the Temple they were all drinking.
Id say the man who wrote the posters was telling the truth.. .
Do you hear that, Qin?
said Jia Lian.
Is Lai Da maligning you too?.
Jia Qin was by now puce in the face and speechless with embarrassment.
Jia Lian took Lai Da by the hand and pleaded with him Spare.
the lad, Lai.
Say you found him at home.
When you take him in to see the Master, theres no need to say that Ive already seen him.
And tomorrow you can ask the Master not to bother with questioning the nuns.
Send for a broker and have them all sold off.
If Her Grace should really need them again, we can always buy some more.
Lai Da reflected that there was nothing to be gained by letting the incident blow into a storm.
The familys name would only suffer.
So he agreed to Jia Lians proposal.
You go with Mr Lai now, Qin, ordered Jia Lian.
And do whatever he tells you.
Jia Qin kotowed once more to Jia Lian and followed Lai Da out.
When they reached a secluded spot, he also kotowed to Lai Da.
Excuse me for saying so, Master Qin, said Lai, but it was your fault for behaving in such a manner.
I dont know who it is that you offended.
Can you think who it could be?
Jia Qin thought for a while, but could think of no particular enemies.
He followed Lai Da listlessly out.
To learn how he extricated himself, you must read the next chapter.
CHAPTER 94 Grandmother Jia gives a crab-blossom party a celebration of the ominous Bao-yu loses his Magic Jade a strange disappearance of the numinous Lai Da led Jia Qin off, to await the Masters return in the morning.
The little novices were thrilled to be back in the Garden and were eager to.
revisit their favourite haunts, imagining that the next day would be taken up with preparations for their visit to the Palace.
Imagine their dismay when they found themselves prisoners Lai Das instructions to the old women and pages on duty were to feed them i their rooms and keep them in close confinement.
The girls.
had no idea why they were being treated in this way and spent the night sitting up in suspense.
Although the maids in the Gardens various residences knew by now of their arrival, they had only been given the official story and knew nothing of the real facts of the case.
Early next day Jia Zheng, having completed his night duty, was about to leave the Board when another urgent file was passed down to him the City Wall Repairs Estimates and Accounts for two of the Provincial Capitals, for Immediate Audit.
He foresaw a considerable delay, and sent a message home to Jia Lian, authorizing him to go ahead and question Lai Da when he returned from the Temple, and to deal with the case as he saw fit.
Jia Lian received these instructions with relief, mainly on young Qins behalf, as he would now be spared the Masters wrath.
On further reflection, however, it occurred to him that he might attract Jia Zhengs suspicion if he were to brush the entire affair under the carpet.
It would be wiser to consult Lady Wang.
Then if he incurred the Masters displeasure, at least he would not be solely responsible.
Having decided on this course of action, Jia Lian went to see Lady Wang and told her what had happened, concluding Uncle Zheng was extremely angry about the anonymous poster and gave orders for Lai Da to bring young Qin and all the girls here for questioning.
Today Uncle is too busy to deal with this sordid matter himself, and has asked me to consult you about it.
What do you think we should do, Aunt?
I never heard of such a disgraceful business!
exclaimed Lady Wang in horror.
If young Qin really has behaved in this degrading fashion, the family should have nothing more to do with him.
Mind you, its a despicable way to carry on, to go putting posters up about people... Do you suppose there is any truth in it?
Have you asked Qin about it yet?
What has he to say for himself?
Ive questioned him, replied Lian.
Only a few moments ago, as a matter of fact.
Of course he denied the whole thing.
But consider, Aunt supposing he really had done it, do you think he would admit to it?
Personally I dont think he did.
He knows that the girls are liable to be called to Court at short notice, and would be too scared of a scandal.
We could find out the truth easily enough.
But what then?
What do you suggest?
Where are the girls now?
asked Lady Wang.
They are locked up in the Garden, replied Jia Lian.
Do the others know that they are there?
They probably all know by now.
But so far as they are concerned the girls are on their way to the Palace.
That is what everyone has been told.
Good, said Lady Wang.
We must get rid of these creatures immediately, once and for all.
I never wanted to keep them on in the first place it was all your idea and Xi-fengs.
Didnt I say it would end in trouble?
Youd better tell Lai Da to go through them one by one and find out if theyve any relatives left at home.
Find their contracts and authorize whatever money is necessary to hire a boat for them - twenty or thirty taels should be enough.
Put someone dependable in charge and have them all taken home to wherever they came from in the first place.
They can take their contracts with them, and that will be the end of that.
Even if one or two of them have been up to some mischief, I dont think it would be fair to punish them indiscriminately, by making them all return to lay-life.
And if we hand them over to the official broker who usually finds husbands for orphan girls, even though we dont want the body price, someone is sure to try and make money out of them, and no one will think of their welfare.
Who knows what might happen to them?
As for Qin, I want you to tell him in no uncertain manner exactly what we think of him.
He is never to come here again except for a clan sacrifice or some other big celebration.
He had better keep well out of Sir Zhengs way too, unless he wants a taste of real trouble.
And dont forget to tell the accounts people to cancel the relevant entry.
Send someone to the Temple, concluded Lady Wang, with strict instructions from Sir Zheng that none of the male members of the clan is to be allowed in there, except for the specific purpose of burning paper-money at the grave-site.
And if there is any more nonsense, we will have all the Sisters removed too.
Jia Lian took this all in and went to give Lai Da his orders.
That is what Her Ladyship says you are to do, he said.
Report to me when youve finished, and I shall report back to Her Ladyship.
Look smart.
When Sir Zheng comes in, all you need do is repeat Her Ladyships instructions.
Its very charitable of Her Ladyship to deal so generously with these worthless people, commented Lai Da.
Ill make sure I pick a good un to take them all home, carrying on Her Ladyships good work, so to speak.
And Ill bring young Master Qin in here, sir, for you to deal with.
As for that anonymous bill-sticker, Ill track him down, and when I lay my hands on him Ill teach him a lesson he wont forget in a hurry.
Jia Lian nodded.
Good.
Jia Qin was summoned and disposed of, and Lai Da dealt with the girls in accordance with Lady Wangs instructions.
When Jia Zheng came home that evening, Jia Lian and Lai Da both went in to report.
Jia Zheng was not a man to look for unnecessary trouble, and was content to consider the matter closed.
The news that the Jia household had dismissed twenty-four girl novices soon spread, and every young rake in town fancied the idea of getting hold of one of them for himself.
What did happen to the girls in the end, and whether or not they ever reached home, our story does not relate, and it would be idle to speculate.
Let us return instead to the Naiads House.
With the slight improvement in Dai-yus health, Nightingale was less busy than usual.
Hearing of the arrival of the novices, and curious about the event that called for their presence at Court, she decided to pay a visit to Grandmother Jias apartment, in the hope of finding out more from one of the maids there.
She arrived just as Faithful was coming off duty and the two of them were able to sit down for a chat.
Nightingale mentioned the novices.
Their presence in the Garden came as a complete surprise to Faithful who exclaimed Thats the first Ive heard of it!
Ill ask Mrs Lian about it later on, shell be sure to know.
At that moment two old women from Mr Fu Shis establishment came to call on Grandmother Jia, and Faithful went to take them through.
Grandmother Jia had just retired for her midday nap, however, so the women exchanged a few words with Faithful and went on their way again.
Where are those two from?
asked Nightingale.
Theyre a tiresome pair, replied Faithful.
Theyre always calling on Her Old Ladyship and telling her how wonderful their Miss Fu is - so sweet-natured, beautiful, well-mannered, softly spoken, a perfect needlewoman, deft with her writing-brush, nimble with her abacus, a paragon of daughterly obedience, kind and ladylike towards the servants, and so on and so forth... Every time they come they treat Her Old Ladyship to the same recital.
I cant bear that sort of thing, but Her Old Ladyship seems to love it.
And the strange thing is that Bao-yu, who normally finds old women like that most irritating, makes an exception of these two.
A few days ago, when they were here last, they said that Mr Fu wouldnt look at any of his sisters suitors and there are plenty of them, but had set his heart on her marrying into a family like ours.
They sung her praises all over again.
Somehow they always seem to say just the thing to please the old lady.
Nightingale looked thoughtful for a moment.
Then she asked with affected nonchalance If Her Old Ladyship is so pleased with what they say, why doesnt she marry Bao-yu to the young lady?
Faithful was on the very point of explaining to Nightingale the real reason, when she heard a call from inside Her Old Ladyship is awake!
She hurried in, leaving Nightingale to make her own way home.
As Nightingale reached the Garden and began to walk towards the Naiads House, she thought to herself Anyone would suppose Bao-yu to be the only boy in the world, from the amount of time we all spend thinking about him!
My poor mistress lust seems to get more and more besotted with him.
Whenever I see her sinking into one of her depressions, I can tell its because of him.
Thats what has been making her fall ill all the time too.
What with all the uncertainty about the bond of gold and jade, and now this Miss Fu - I dont know!
I always thought Bao-yu loved Miss Lin, but from what Faithful said it seems he just flits from one girl to the next.
My poor mistress!
All your heartache is wasted on him!
Nightingale had begun by feeling sad on Dai-yus account, but the more she thought about it the more wretched and confused she began to feel herself.
She would have liked to advise Dai-yu not to wear her heart out in such a futile affair, but was too afraid of incurring her displeasure.
And yet how could she just stand by and watch her suffer?
Presently, as she turned the problem over and over in her mind, her compassion gave way to a sudden feeling of annoyance and she chided herself Why should I worry about them anyway?
Supposing Miss Lin does marry Bao-yu - shell still be as difficult to please as ever.
And Bao-yu may be friendly enough, but I know how fickle he is too.
I tell others not to wear their hearts out in vain, and then do so myself!
N 9 , from now on I shall concentrate on doing my duty and not allow myself to get involved.
In this new spirit of detachment she continued on her way to the Naiads House, and arrived to find Dai-yu sitting alone on the kang, going over some of her old poems and other writings.
As she entered the room Dai-yu looked up and asked Where have you been?
Oh, I just went out for a chat with one of the other maids, replied Nightingale.
Was it Aroma?
What should I want to see her for?
The off-hand manner of her reply came as a shock to Dai-yu, who felt most put out and said curtly Do as you please, its all the same to me.
Bring me a cup of tea.
Nightingale smiled inwardly at the outcome of her experiment and went to pour the tea.
As she did so she heard a confused hubbub in the Garden, but could not tell what was going on.
She began pouring the tea and sent a junior maid out to investigate the disturbance.
The maid returned in a short while to report Its the crab-trees at Green Delights.
Earlier this year some of them were struck with the blight, and no one bothered to water them.
Yesterday Bao-yu went to have a look at them and thought he could see buds on some of the branches.
No one believed him or paid any attention to his story at the time.
But today theres ho doubt about it, theyve come out in the most beautiful blossom!
It has caused quite a stir and everyone is hurrying over there to have a look.
Even Her Old Ladyship and Her Ladyship have been caught up in the excitement and are going along to see the blossom.
So Mrs Zhu has given orders for all the paths to be cleared of leaves - thats what all the shouting was about.
Dai-yu heard that Grandmother Jia was coming, she got up to change and sent Snowgoose on ahead, telling her to report back the moment Her Old Ladyship arrived.
She soon came running back.
Her Old Ladyship and Her Ladyship and a lot of the other ladies have all arrived!
Hurry, Miss!
Dai-yu took a brief look in the mirror, passed a comb quickly through her hair and set off with Nightingale in the direction of Green Delights.
She arrived to find Grandmother Jia installed on Bao-yus day-couch, and after greeting her and Lady Xing and Lady Wang went on to say hello to Li Wan, Tan-chun, Xi-chun and Xing Xiuyan.
She noticed that several people were absent Xi-feng was ill in bed, Shi Xiang-yun had gone home to see her uncle who was in the capital on transfer, while Bao-qin had stayed at home with Bao-chai, and the two Li sisters, Wen and Qi, had been taken to live elsewhere by their mother, whom recent events had convinced that Prospect Garden was a rather unsuitable environment for her daughters.
They were all chatting away, each propounding a different interpretation of the strange phenomenon of the winter-flowering crab-trees.
They usually flower in the third month, I know, Grandmother Jia was saying.
And we are in the eleventh month now.
But then the movable terms in the calendar are rather late this year, so we could say this is more like the tenth month, which is after all sometimes called "Little Spring".
With the exceptionally warm weather we have been having, a little blossom is only to be expected.
You are quite right, Mother, agreed Lady Wang.
We need someone of your experience to show us that this is really nothing out of the ordinary.
Lady Xing however was not so easily convinced.
I heard that these trees had already been struck by the blight for almost a year... How do you explain the fact that half-dead trees should start flowering now, at such an odd time of the year?
Li Wan spoke next.
I think you are both right, she said with a smile.
My own humble suggestion is that they have flowered specially to tell us of some happy event that is about to take place in Bao-yus life.
Tan-chun, although she remained silent, was secretly thinking to herself This must be an ill-omen.
Everything that is in harmony with nature prospers, and things out of season, out of time, fade and die.
Plants and trees obey a natural cycle.
If a tree flowers out of season, it must be an ill omen.
She kept all this to herself, however.
It was Dai-yu who spoke next.
She had been struck by Li Wans mention of a happy event, and said with some excitement There was once a family of farmers who had a thorn-bush.
There were three sons in the family, and one day these three sons decided to leave home and go their separate ways.
No sooner had they gone than the thornbush began to fade away and die.
But some time later the brothers began to yearn for each others company, returned home and were reunited.
And at once the thornbush began to flourish again.
So you see plants follow closely the fortunes of the people to whom they are attached.
Now Cousin Bao is devoting himself seriously to his studies, which pleases Uncle Zheng, which pleases the crab-trees, which is why they are flowering!
This went down very well with Grandmother Jia and Lady Wang.
What a well-chosen story!
Such an interesting idea!
Jia She and Jia Zheng now arrived to view the flowers, accompanied by Jia Huan and Jia Lan.
Jia She spoke first.
Cut them down.
Thats what I say.
Theres evil work afoot here.
On the contrary, said Jia Zheng.
Leave them alone.
Evil manifestations thrive on such superstition.
Ignore them and they disappear.
Whats all this?
interrupted Grandmother Jia testily.
Were all gathered here to witness a happy event.
Why do you have to start talking about manifestations and what-have-you?
When theres good luck then enjoy it while you can.
Ill take care of any bad luck.
I forbid you to utter another word of such gloomy nonsense.
This silenced Jia Zheng, and he and Jia She effected an awkward departure.
Grandmother Jia was unperturbed and determined to enjoy herself.
Send someone to the kitchen, she said.
We want wine and some nice things to eat.
Well have a little party.
I should like you, Bao-yu, Huan and Lan, each to write a poem to celebrate the occasion.
Miss Lin has been unwell so she can be excused.
If she feels up to it she can help you boys polish yours.
Turning to Li Wan she continued You and the others come up and have some wine with me.
Yes Grannie, said Li Wan, then turning to Tan-chun she laughed and said This is all your fault, Tan!
What do you mean?
protested Tan-chun.
Weve been let off the poetry-writing - my fault for what?
Arent you the founder of the Crab-flower Club?
replied Li Wan.
I know that crab was an Autumn Crab -ut cant you see?
Now the real crab-blossom wants to join in too... Everyone laughed at the idea.
Food and wine were now served, and they all drank and did their best to humour the old lady with light-hearted conversation.
Bao-yu came up to pour himself some wine, and standing there thought up a quatrain which he then wrote out and recited for his grandmother.
-534 I asked the crab-tree why at blossom-time it failed, Yet now profusely bloomed so long before the spring?
The tree replied Midwinter marks the birth of light.
Glad tidings to the Mistress of this House I bring.
It was Huans turn next.
He wrote his out and began to recite -347 Plants should put out buds in spring Our crab trees timings topsy-turvy.
Of all the wonders of the world Ours is the only winter-flowering tree.
Then Jia Lan made a careful copy of his poem, in immaculate kai-shu calligraphy, and presented it to his great-grandmother, who asked Li Wan to read it out for her.
-827 Your mist-congealed beauty blighted in the spring, Your frosted petals blush now in the snow.
Hail Tree of Wisdom!
Whose Rebirth Adds lustre to our Family Hearth.
When she reached the end, Grandmother Jia commented I dont know much about poetry, but I should judge Lans good, while I should say that Huans was poor.
Come on now, everybody come and have something to eat.
Bao-yu was affected by her jolly mood.
But then he thought to himself Last year when the crab-trees died was the year Sky-bright died.
Now the crab-trees have come back to life.
Thats all very well for us but Skybright can never live again...
This thought threw him into a sudden depression then he remembered what Qiao-jie had recently said, that Xifeng might be sending him pretty Fivey.
Perhaps it was her imminent arrival that the strange blossoming portended?
This prospect dispelled his gloom and he became his smiling self once more.
Grandmother Jia stayed a while longer, then returned to her apartment, leaning on Pearland escorted by Lady Wang and the others.
As she was leaving, Patience came hurrying up, her face wreathed in smiles Mrs Lian heard that you were here viewing the flowers, she said, and though she couldnt come herself, she asked me to come and attend to Your Ladyships and to bring this parcel.
It contains two rolls of red silk for Master Bao to decorate the trees with, and comes with Mrs Lians congratulations on the happy event.
Aroma came forward to receive the parcel and presented it to Grandmother Jia, who beamed with delight.
Trust Fengie to think of the right thing!
What a nice idea!
So distinguished!
Aroma gave Patience a smile.
Please thank Mrs Lian for Master Bao when you go back, will you?
she said.
The happy event she is referring to is one that will make all of us happy, Im sure..
When Aroma said this, it dawned on Grandmother Jia that Xi-feng was thinking of Bao-yus marriage, and her face lit up.
Aiyo!
she exclaimed.
Of course!
It never occurred to me!
Fengie may be laid up in bed, but shes still the cleverest of us all.
What a perfect thing to send!
As she said this, she was already walking away from Green Delights, followed by her entourage.
Patience whispered to Aroma Actually Mrs Lian says this flowering is an ill-omen, and youre to cut strips of this red silk and hang them on the trees that will help turn the bad luck into good.
And in future youre to avoid any superstitious chat about it.
Aroma nodded and saw Patience out.
Earlier that day, Bao-yu had been lounging around indoors, casually dressed in a fur-lined gown with slits at the sides.
When he caught sight of the flowering crab-trees through the window, he went out to look at them.
The more he gazed at the blossom the more lovely and poignant it seemed, the more strangely it seemed to reflect the mysterious vagaries of destiny, the joy and pathos of life.
It was the embodiment of his own thoughts and feelings.
Then, when he heard that Grandmother Jia was coming over, he hurried in to change into more formal attire, choosing a pale fox-lined robe with cut-away archers sleeves and a darker jacket, also fox-lined, to go with it.
He emerged again properly dressed to receive his grandmother, and in his hurry quite forgot to put on his Magic Jade.
When Grandmother Jia left he went on again to change back into his comfortable clothes, and it was then that Aroma detected the absence of the jade and asked him where it was.
I was in such a rush when I came in to change, he replied.
I took it off and left it on the kang-table.
Then I forgot to put it on again.
Aroma looked but it was not on the table.
She searched everywhere but could see no sign of it.
She began to feel frightened, and broke into a cold sweat.
Please dont worry, Bao-yu begged her.
It must be somewhere in the room.
Its bound to turn up.
Ask the others - they might know.
It occurred to Aroma that Musk or one of the other maids might have hidden it somewhere as a practical joke and she bore down on them with an expression of playful accusation You mean lot!
Cant you think of a better way of amusing yourselves?
Come on, where have you hidden it?
Dont take this too far!
If it really did get lost wed be in real trouble, all of us!
But Musk replied with a straight face What on earth do you mean?
Wed know better than to play a trick like that.
Were not that silly.
Youre the one who should stop and think a minute.
Try to remember where you put it, instead of laying the blame on us!
Aroma could tell that Musk was in earnest and cried out in alarm Heaven save us then!
Oh little ancestor, where can you have put it?
You must try to remember!
I do, replied Bao-yu, I remember quite clearly putting it on the kang-table.
Have another look for it.
The maids were too scared to tell anyone else, and joined together in a furtive search.
This went on for most of the day but there was still no sign of the jade.
They emptied every box, and rummaged in every trunk, until there simply was nowhere left to look and they began to wonder if perhaps one of the visitors might have picked it up earlier in the day.
How would anyone dare do such a thing?
said Aroma.
Everyone knows how important it is, and that Master Baos very life hinges on it.
Ask about it, but be very discreet.
If you find out that one of the maids has taken it and is playing a trick on us, kotow to her and beg for it back.
If its a junior maid whos stolen it, dont tell a soul, just do whatever is necessary to get it back.
Give her whatever you like in exchange.
This is very serious.
It would be terrible if we lost the jade, worse even than losing Master Bao himself!
Musk and Ripple set off on this mission.
Aroma hurried out after them with a few final words of instruction On second thoughts, leave the people who were here at lunch-time till last.
If it turns out to be someone else, we dont want to offend them and cause a lot of ill-feeling to no purpose.
The two maids split up to make their inquiries, but everywhere they went it was the same story.
Nobody knew anything about it.
Everybody was equally taken aback by the news.
They hurried back to report their lack of success, and stared at one another in despondent silence.
Bao-yu himself was now beginning to look rather stunned, and Aroma was so desperate that she could only weep helplessly.
What could they do?
There was nowhere left to look.
They were too scared to tell any of the elder members of the family.
The entire establishment at Green Delights was immobilized with fear and resembled a group of wooden statues or clay dolls.
One by one the others who had heard the news began to arrive, among them Tan-chun, who immediately gave orders for the Garden gate to be shut and sent an old serving-woman and two maids on another comprehensive search, announcing to everyone present.
that there would be a substantial reward for the recovery of the jade.
They were all keen to establish their own innocence, and this, with the added incentive of winning the reward, now led to a flurry of indiscriminate searching.
Every nook and cranny of the Garden was explored, not excluding the lavatories, but to no avail.
It was as hopeless as hunting for an embroidery needle, and as evening drew on there was still no trace of the missing jade.
Li Wan now sensed the urgency of the situation and said I have a suggestion to make.
Its not the sort of thing I would usually like to suggest but in the present circumstances I feel I must...
They all gave her their attention.
Things are so desperate that I think we have to try anything.
Now apart from Bao-yu, all the residents of the Garden are girls.
I should like you all to ask your maids to remove their dresses, so that we can search everyone properly.
If that produces no results, then we should send them to search the older serving-women and cleaners.
Do you all agree?
The consensus of opinion was that she was right.
With so many people involved, and such confusion, this seemed the only way of establishing anyone 5 innocence.
Tan-chun was the only one to abstain from making any comment.
The maids were eager.
to clear themselves, and Patience was the first to volunteer.
One by one they all undid their dresses and filed past, while Li Wan supervised the examination.
Tan-chun could contain herself no longer.
My dear Wan, cant you see what a futile waste of time this all is?
Supposing someone has stolen it do you really think he or she would be foolish enough to carry it around?
Anyway, why should anyone want to steal it?
It means a lot to us, but outside this household its quite valueless.
If you ask me, someones doing this out of spite.
They all knew immediately whom she was referring to.
Jia Huan had been in and out of Green Delights many times that day.
No one was prepared to mention his name, however, and she was obliged to be more specific herself It must be Huan.
Who else would play such a nasty trick?
Send someone secretly oVer to his room and bring him here.
Get him on his own and talk him into producing the jade, then threaten to expose him unless he keeps his mouth shut, and theres our mystery solved.
Amid much nodding of heads, Li Wan turned to Patience and said Youd better go.
This will require all your tact.
Yes maam, replied Patience, and hurried off.
-320 A few minutes later, when she returned with Jia Huan, the others pretended hardly to notice his arrival.
One of them made him a pot of tea and placed it on a table in the inner room.
Then they all shuffled out and left the scene clear for Patience.
She gave him an ingenuous smile.
Master Baos jade has gone missing.. .1 dont suppose youve seen it anywhere have you?
Jia Huans face instantly flushed to an ugly shade of purple .
He glowered at her.
Just because somebodys lost something, does that mean that I automatically become the suspect and get called in for interrogation?
Have I got a criminal record or something?
Patience decided to change tack, and said with a smile Of course no one would dream of suggesting you stole it!
They just thought that perhaps you might have hidden it somewhere as a practical joke, and that by asking you if youd seen it I might be able to get a few clues as to where they should look for it.
Its his jade, isnt it?
replied Jia Huan indignantly.
Hes the one that wears the thing - ask him, not me!
Youre all so keen to please him, thats your trouble!
If somethings found I never get to hear of it!
But the moment anythings lost, its me that gets the blame!
He got up and stomped out of the room.
The maids stepped back to let him through.
All this only served to exasperate Bao-yu.
The amount of trouble that wretched thing has caused!
he said.
Ive no desire for it and I wish you would all forget about it.
Now look what weve done.
Huan will go and tell everybody and well never hear the end of it.
Little ancestor, please.
.. came tearfully from where Aroma stood in the throng of distraught maids.
Its all very well for you to say "forget about it"!
But what you seem to have forgotten is that if their Ladyships get to hear, the likes of us will be torn to shreds and ground to powder!
This was followed by prolonged wailing.
It soon became clear to them all that things could not be hushed up for much longer.
They would have to agree on a story to tell Grandmother Jia and the other ladies.
Thats easy, said Bao-yu.
Just tell them I smashed it myself.
No no!
Thats no good!
said Patience.
Cant you see?
Theyll want to know why you smashed it, and then things will look just as black for Aroma and the others.
And besides, what if they want to see the pieces?
Well then, say I lost it on a trip to town.
There was a moments silence as they all pondered this suggestion.
We might possibly have got away with that, said someone at last.
But during the past few days you havent been to school, and you havent been out anywhere either.
Yes I have, Bao-yu corrected them.
A few days ago I went to the Earl of Lin-ans to watch the plays.
You can say I lost it then.
No, that wont do, said Tan-chun.
If you lost it as long ago as that, theyll want to know why it hasnt been reported till now.
They were still busy discussing the relative merits of these various fictions when suddenly they heard the voice of Aunt Zhao, cursing and wailing her way towards them.
If you lose something, why cant you look for it yourselves, instead of sneaking up and blaming my boy?
Well, here he is!
Take him!
Sacrifice him if you think it will do you any good!
Kill him!
Hack him to pieces!
Do what you like with him!
She propelled Jia Huan into the room, crying Thief!
Hurry up and confess your crime!
This brought loud and angry protestations from Huan.
Li Wan was just bracing herself to intervene and make the peace when a maid came rushing in and announced Her Ladyship is here!
Aroma and the maids could see that a confrontation was now inevitable.
Bao-yu and the girls went out at once to receive Lady Wang.
Aunt Zhaos wrath subsided for a moment and she followed them out.
From the startled look on their faces Lady Wang could see that what she had heard must be true.
Is it really lost?
she cried.
No one dared reply.
Lady Wang walked in, sat down and called Aroma forward.
Aroma fell trembling to her knees.
In a choked voice she murmured Yes.
Well, get up!
said Lady Wang.
We must have a thorough search made.
Come on, this helpless attitude will never do.
Aroma was sobbing and could not say a word.
Bao-yu finally spoke up, fearful that she might blurt out the truth.
Mother, this has nothing to do with Aroma.
I lost it the other day on my way back from seeing the plays at the Earl of Lin-an 5.
Then why didnt you look for it at the time?
I didnt want anyone to know.
I just told Tealeaf to look for it everywhere along the street.
Nonsense!
You know perfectly well that Aroma or one of your other maids would have noticed.
Thats their job.
They are always with you when you change.
Whenever you come in from a party or any kind of excursion, if one of your handkerchiefs is missing, or a little purse, theyre bound to ask you where its gone do you really think that they would allow something as irreplaceable as your jade to disappear, and not say a word?
Bao-yu was stumped for an answer.
Aunt Zhao, who was gloating over his discomfiture, hastened to put in If youre so sure you lost it outside, why try to pin the blame on Huan?
Thats enough from you!
said Lady Wang sharply.
You keep out of this!
Aunt Zhao was reduced to silence.
It was left to Li Wan and Tan-chun to give the true story, which brought tears to Lady Wangs eyes.
In her agitation she was for telling Grandmother Jia and going over to Lady Xings apartment to question the members of her household who had been to Green Delights earlier in the day.
The news had meanwhile reached Xi-feng on her sickbed.
When she heard that Lady Wang had arrived at Green Delights she felt obliged to put in an appearance and, leaning on Felicitys arm, made her way towards the Garden.
She arrived just as Lady Wang was about to leave.
Good evening, Aunt.
Xi-fengs voice trembled slightly as she spoke.
Bao-yu and the others came up to greet her.
So youve heard the news too!
said Lady Wang to Xifeng.
Most extraordinary!
It vanished just like that, and cant be found anywhere.
Think for a moment of all the maids, including all of Lady Jias and even your own Patience, which would you say showed thieving tendencies, or had a malicious disposition?
I intend to tell Lady J ia, and to order a thorough search.
Until we find it, Baoyus life hangs in the balance!
Ours is such a large household, said Xi-feng, and, as the saying goes, you can know a mans face, but never his heart.
With all the commotion of a search, everyone is bound to hear, and the thief will be so scared of the consequences that rather than be caught, he could well panic and destroy the evidence - the jade itself - and then where would we be?
No, my advice, for what it is worth, is that we should let it be known that Bao-yu threw it away in disgust and that it really doesnt matter.
Everyone must be very discreet so as to keep Her Old Ladyship and Sir Zheng from knowing.
Meanwhile we can search everywhere in secret, and if were clever we should end up with both the jade and the thief.
Does that make sense to you, Aunt?
After a long pause Lady Wang replied Its all very well, but will we ever succeed in keeping this from Sir Zheng?
She called Jia Huan to her.
It was very silly of you to go shouting your head off about Bao-yus jade, just because they asked you about it.
If the thief has heard and destroys the jade, you will pay for it with your life!
I promise never to mention it again!
wailed Jia Huan in terror.
This time Aunt Zhao held her tongue.
There must be some places left where you havent looked, Lady Wang continued, addressing the assembled maids.
It must be somewhere here.
Its hardly going to fly away, is it?
But when you look, be as quiet as possible.
Aroma, I give you three days to find it.
If we still havent found it by then, we shant be able to keep it from Her Old Ladyship and Sir Zheng any longer.
And everyone knows what that will mean!
Bidding Xi-feng accompany her, Lady Wang set off for Lady Xings apartment, for further consultations on how to apprehend the thief.
Li Wan and the others continued to debate what to do.
They sent for the various domestics in charge of the Garden and gave orders for the gates to be securely locked.
Steward Lins wife was also summoned and given confidential instructions.
Tell the servants on both gates that absolutely no one is to be allowed out of the Garden for the next three days.
We can allow freedom of movement within the Garden, but no one must leave.
Say that something has been lost and that no one can go out until its found.
Yes, Mrs Zhu, said Lins wife.
Excuse me, maam, she went on, but we lost something at home the other day - nothing of any value of course, but my husband was determined to find it, and he went and consulted one of those word-diviners that set themselves up at street corners.
Iron Mouth Liu I think this ones name was.
His reading was very clear.
My husband followed his instructions, and found the missing item straight away.
When Aroma heard this she begged her to help them.
Oh, Mrs Lin!
Please go and ask your husband to consult this man for us!
Indeed I will.
Straight away.
Lins wife bustled off.
Xing Xiu-yan now had a suggestion to make.
If you ask me, those word-diviners and fortune-tellers you find on street corners are all charlatans.
But when I knew Adamantina, in the South, before she came to live here, I heard of her gift for the planchette.
Why dont we ask her to hold a sance for us?
Didnt .Bao-yus jade have a mysterious origin anyway?
It would surely lend itself to that sort of approach.
The others seemed greatly surprised to hear this, and reflected that in all the time they had known her, Adamantma had never once mentioned such a gift.
Musk earnestly beseeched Xiu-yan Oh, Miss!
I dont think she would agree to do it for anyone but you!
Please, please, will you ask her for us?
Ill kotow to you - if she finds the answer, Ill be indebted to you for a lifetime!
She was about to perform a kotow, but Xiu-yan raised her from the ground.
Dai-yu and the others added their entreaties to Musks, and Xiu-yan left with all speed for Green Bower Hermitage.
No sooner had she gone, than Steward Lins wife returned from her mission.
Ladies!
she announced with great jubilation.
I bring good news!
My husband has been to see the man and he says the jade is sure to turn up.
Someone will definitely bring it back.
She had yet to convince her audience however - except for Aroma and Musk, who were ready to grasp at the slightest hope.
Tan-chun asked What word came up, and what was the reading?
He said a lot, replied Lins wife, and some of it I couldnt understand.
But I know the word was shang 1 meaning to reward".
Iron Mouth Liu took one look at it and said, "Youve lost something, havent you?"!
Goodness!
He sounds pretty good!
exclaimed Li Wan.
Lins wife continued Then he went on to say that as shang was made up of xiao 2 meaning "small" on top, with kou 3 meaning "mouth" in the middle, the lost object was small enough to fit inside the mouth.
It must be some jewel or precious stone.
Amid cries of Miraculous!
and Go on!, Lins wife continued Then he said that we should be careful to notice that the radical element was bei 4 meaning "a cowry shell" and not the similar radical jian 5 meaning "to appear", hence the objects disappearance.
.
.
And the top element of the word taken as a whole was very like dang 6 meaning "to pawn", so we should go straight to the pawnshop.
Then he pointed out that by adding a ren 7 "man" to the left-hand side, the compound chang 8 meaning "to redeem" was formed.
Find the man in the pawnshop, pay the price, and the lost object will be redeemed... What are we waiting for?
cried the girls.
Search the neighbourhood!
If we work our way through the pawn-shops, were sure to find the right one sooner or later.
And once weve found the jade, it will be easy enough to find the thief.
Find the jade and we neednt even bother who the thief is, said Li Wan.
Turning to Steward Lins wife she continued Go and tell Mrs Lian what you have just told us.
Then she can tell Her Ladyship and set her mind at rest.
And ask Mrs Lian to send someone out to search the pawnshops.
Lins wife set off at once.
Things seemed more hopeful now, and relative calm was restored.
They were waiting in a somewhat bemused state for Xiu-yan to return when they saw Tealeaf beckoning from the gateway one of the junior maids.
She ran out and he said Quick!
Go in and tell Master Bao and their Ladyships and the ladies and young misses that Ive got the most wonderful piece of news!
Well come on!
burst 6 ut the maid.
What is it?
Out with it!
Tealeaf started laughing and clapping his hands.
All right, Ill tell you.
And then you can go in and tell them, and we can split the reward between us.
Guess what?
The most reliable information has reached me as to the whereabouts of the Missing Jade!
The outcome of all this excitement will be related in the next chapter.
CHAPTER 95 A rumour comes true and the Imperial Consort passes away A counterfeit is deceptively like the real thing, and Bao-yu loses his wits There was Tealeaf at the entrance to Green Delights, proclaiming his discovery of the missing jade.
A junior maid hurried in to tell Bao-yu.
The others, when they heard, propelled Bao-yu towards the entrance to question Tealeaf, while they stood listening in the covered gallery.
Bao-yu, greatly relieved at the news, walked out and asked Tealeaf Where did you find it?
Come on, give it to me.
Tealeaf replied Im afraid I couldnt bring it with me.
I need a guarantor.
But how did you find it?
Tell me, and Ill send someone to fetch it.
I heard that Steward Lin was going to consult the word-diviner, said Tealeaf, so I went along with him.
When I heard the word pawnshop, I didnt wait to hear the rest, but went racing round the pawnshops.
I described the jade to them, and eventually one of them said, Weve got it.
I asked him to hand it over, but he insisted on having the pawn-ticket.
When I asked him how much it had been pawned for, he said he had one for three hundred taels and another for five hundred.
The one for three hundred was brought in the day before yesterday, the one for five hundred came in today.
Quick, interrupted Bao-yu.
Take three hundred taels and five hundred.
Get them both, and we can see which is the right one.
But Aroma called out jeeringly from within Youre not going to take any notice of him, are you?
I remember my elder brother telling me when I was a little girl, that the people who deal in that kind of jade pawn one or two from their stock when they are short of cash.
Every pawnshop must have at least one of them.
At first everyone had been carried away by Tealeafs story.
But now, after reflecting on what Aroma had just said, they all began to laugh.
Come inside, Master Bao.
Dont listen to that fool.
Whatever it is hes talking about, it obviously isnt the real thing.
Bao-yu laughed too.
At that moment, Xiu-yan returned fr6m her mission.
On her arrival at Green Bower Hermitage, she had come straight to the point.
Would Adamantina consult the planchette for them?
Her request met with a scornful laugh.
I thought you were above such worldly things, Xiu-yan.
I am sure we should never have been such friends if I had known you would ever let idle talk induce you to come bothering me.
Anyway, Im afraid this planchette you mention is something I am not familiar with.
With this, she clearly intended to dismiss the subject, and Xiu-yan regretted ever having come.
She knew what a difficult disposition Adamantina had.
But now that she had broached the subject, it seemed such a pity to return empty-handed.
She made no attempt to insist on her friends psychic powers, but instead tried to win Adamantina around by speaking of the urgent light in which Aroma and the others viewed the loss.
At this, Adamantina showed signs of relenting, and Xiu-yan rose to her feet and bowed humbly before her several times.
Adamantina sighed.
Are we to be at everyones beck and call?
Since I have been here, I have kept this a secret.
Now, if I make an exception for you, I shall never be left in peace.
I felt I had to come, their need seemed so great, replied Xiu-yan.
I knew that you would feel sorry for them.
If anyone else should ask, you will be quite free to say no.
No one would ever press you into it.
Adamantina laughed.
She told one of the lay-sisters to light some incense, and went herself to fetch the tray of sand and the planchette-wand from a chest.
After writing out the requisite incantation, she told Xiu-yan to kneel and pray.
When this was done, they both stood and held the wand by its double handle.
Before long it began to move across the tray.
The characters it traced with a rapid motion in the sand read as follows ALAS!
IT LEFT NOR TRACE NOR SIGN.
GONE TO GREENSICKNESS PEAK, TO LIE AT THE FOOT OF AN AGE-OLD PINE WHY TRAVERSE COUNTLESS MOUNTAINS, SEARCHING FOR YOUR FRIEND?
FOLLOW ME AND LAUGH TO SEE YOUR JOURNEY AT AN END!
The writing ceased, and the wand came to rest.
Which spirit did you invoke?
asked Xiu-yan.
Iron Crutch Li, replied Adamantlna.
Xiu-yan copied down the writing, and asked Adamantma to give an explanation of the line.
How could I?
she replied.
I dont understand them myself.
Take it back to the others.
Many of them are far cleverer than I am, Im sure.
Xiu-yan did not press her, but returned to Green Delights.
On her arrival, she was besieged with questions.
Tell us what happened!
they all cried.
Instead of giving them a lengthy description of the seance, Xiu-yan handed her transcript straight to Li Wan.
The girls and Bao-yu crowded round to read it.
Between them they came to the following interpretation of the lines the jade would not be found by looking for it, and yet it was not irretrievably lost.
At some unforeseeable time, when no one was looking for it, it would just turn up.
But as for Green -sickness Peak, no one had any idea where that could be.
It may be some sort of hidden clue, suggested Li Wan.
Weve certainly never had such a mountain in our garden, and one is not going to spring suddenly from nowhere.
The only explanation I can think of is that whoever stole the jade lost his nerve and threw it away, and now it 5 lying beneath some miniature mountain in a rockery somewhere near a pine-tree.
But whats all this about follow me at the end?
Who was the spirit invoked?
asked Dai-yu.
Iron Crutch Li, Xiu-yan informed her.
Hed be a hard one to follow!
protested Tan-chun.
Aroma, meanwhile, in her desperation, took the words quite literally and set to in earnest, searching blindly everywhere.
She left no stone in the garden unturned, but all to no avail.
When she returned, Bao-yu did not even ask her if she had had any success, but just gave her a silly grin.
Little ancestor!
cried Musk.
For pitys sake tell us where you lost it!
At least then if we have to suffer for it, we will know why!
You wouldnt listen to me when I said Id lost it outside, protested Bao-yu.
How am I supposed to know any better now?
Li Wan and Tan-chun suggested that they had all had a long and tiring day.
It was now eleven oclock.
Dai-yu, they observed, had been too weary to stay up any longer, and had gone home on her own.
We should all go to bed now, they proposed.
Tomorrow we can start afresh.
The gathering dispersed.
Bao-yu went straight to sleep.
Aroma and the other maids, however, were quite unable to get to sleep, and sat up all night long, weeping and brooding by turns.
But we must leave them for a while, and turn our attention to Dai-yu.
When she reached home, her thoughts turned once more to the subject that had always preoccupied her, the bond of gold and jade between Bao-yu and Bao-chai.
On this occasion, her conclusions were more gratifying than usual.
How can there have been any truth in the prophecy made by the Monk and the Taoist?
she argued with herself.
If there really were a bond of gold and jade, how could Bao-yu lose his jade like this?
Perhaps I am an unforeseen circumstance that has broken the bond... More reflections of this kind brought her an unwonted peace of mind.
Her weariness after the days exertions seemed to fall from her, and she began reading again.
Nightingale, however, was worn out, and urged her mistress repeatedly to go to sleep.
Dai-yu lay down, but continued to think.
This time it was the crab-trees that occupied her thoughts.
Bao-yu.s jade is no ordinary stone.
He was born with it, and whatever happens to it is highly significant.
If the crab-blossom were a good omen, then why should he lose his jade at the same time?
It must be inauspicious.
Im afraid something unlucky will happen to him.
Down went her spirits again.
And then she saw it in yet another light, and became optimistic once more.
Perhaps both the blossoming and the loss of the jade were meant to happen, were both in some way timely and auspicious.
-1536 She lay awake in the throes of these conflicting emotions, and Only fell asleep in the early hours.
Early the next morning, Lady Wang sent servants to make inquiries in the pawnshops, while Xi-feng set in motion her own secret investigations.
Several days went by, but despite their combined efforts, there was still no sign of the missing jade.
Luckily word of the disaster had as yet reached neither Grandmother Jia nor Jia Zheng.
But Aroma and the other maids lived from day to day in unbearable suspense, while Bao-yu, who had now been absent from school for several days, was becoming progressively more morose, listless and silent.
Lady Wang was not too worried by this, judging it to be a temporary affliction brought on by the loss of his jade.
She was sitting one day lost in thought, when Jia Lian came into her room, and having paid his respects, announced with a complacent smile Uncle Zheng has today had word from Yu-cun that Uncle Wang Zi-teng has been promoted to a position in the Grand Secretariat.
He has received an Imperial Decree to proceed to the capital.
His official instatement is to be on the twentieth of the First month of next year, and an urgent dispatch has been sent to summon him from the frontier.
He will be travelling day and night, and should be here in half a month or so.
I have come especially to bring you this news, Aunt.
Lady Wang was absolutely delighted.
She had only just been thinking how few of her own family she had around her, a deficiency that had been highlighted during her sis ters latest troubles.
Her brother Zi-teng had been too far away to be able to wield any influence on their behalf.
But now, with his new appointment and return to the capital, she could expect a revival of Wang family prestige from which Bao-yu too would be able to benefit.
For the time being she felt able to dismiss her anxiety over the missing jade, and looked forward more and more to her brothers return.
A day or two later, Jia Zheng came in unexpectedly, and with tear-stained face and voice choking with emotion, told her You must inform Mother immediately that her presence is required at once at the Palace.
There is no need for a large party to go.
It will be sufficient if you escort Mother.
Her Grace has suddenly been taken ill, and has fallen into a coma.
There is a court eunuch waiting outside.
He says the official diagnosis by the College of Physicians is an incurable stroke.
Lady Wang burst into tears.
This is no time for crying, said Jia Zheng.
You must go and tell Mother at once.
Break it to her gently.
We must not cause the old lady too much of a shock.
So saying, Jia Zheng went out to give the staff their instructions.
Lady Wang dried her eyes and went in to Grandmother Jias apartment.
She said simply that Yuanchun was ill, and that they must go to the Palace to present their respects.
Merciful Buddha!
exclaimed Grandmother Jia.
How can she have fallen ill again?
Last time if you remember I had such a fright, and then we found out that I had been imagining it all.
If Only I were imagining it now!
Lady Wang talked to the old lady, and at the same time urged Faithful and the other maids to look out her court robes and begin attiring her.
She then went in haste to her own apartment, dressed and returned to wait on Grandmother J ia.
In a short while they were ready, and walked out from the main hall to the sedan-chairs that were waiting to carry them to the palace.
Yuan-chun, since her elevation to the Imperial Bed-chamber, had been the cherished object of the emperors favours, and had become as a result somewhat plump.
From the constant pressure and daily exhaustion of life at court, she had also developed a chronic bronchial condition.
A few days previously, when returning late from attendance at a banquet, she had cught a chill,.
which soon brought on her old complaint.
This time, however, it was a severe attack.
Phlegm completely obstructed her passages, causing a coldness and faintness in her limbs.
The emperor was informed, and a court physician summoned at once.
But she could swallow none of the medicines that he prescribed, and even the decongestant salts they tried to administer had no beneficial effect.
Concerned at her critical condition, her attendant eunuchs reported again to His Majesty, requesting that the necessary precautions be taken.
And so her immediate family were summoned to the Palace.
Grandmother Jia and Lady Wang presented themselves at the palace, and entered the Imperial Concubines Bed-chamber, to find her choked with phlegm, with saliva dribbling from her mouth, no longer capable of speech.
When she saw her grandmother coming towards her, her face took on the most pitiful expression, as if she wanted to weep but no longer had the strength to do so.
Grandmother Jia came forward to do homage, and offered a few words of comfort.
A little later, the official cards of Jia Zheng and company were brought in, and a lady-in-waiting presented them for Her Graces inspection.
She no longer had the strength to look at them, however, and her face was growing paler minute by minute.
The eunuchs were about to report to the emperor again, and foreseeing that the other concubines would soon arrive to pay their last respects, asked the Jia relatives if they would kindly step outside and wait in one of the ante-chambers of the Palace.
Grandmother Jia and Lady Wang had no choice but to conform to court regulations, and wrench themselves away.
Holding back their tears, they left the chamber with sorrowful hearts.
They could see messages being passed within the Palace, and shortly afterwards a eunuch came out and sent for an official from the Imperial Board of Astronomy.
Grandmother Jia knew Only too well what this meant.
He was requesting an auspicious date for the funeral.
It was all over.
But still she dared not make a move.
It was not long before a junior eunuch came out to make the official announcement Her Grace the Jia Concubine has passed away.
It was the nineteenth of the twelfth month.
Spring Commencement fell on the eighteenth of the twelfth month of that year, being the year Jia Yin the nineteenth of the month was therefore also, astrologically speaking, within the month Yin of the following Mao year.
Her Grace was forty-three years old.
Grandmother Jia rose, and doing her best to remain composed, left the Palace, climbed into her sedan and was carried home.
Jia Zheng and company had also been informed, and they too made the sad journey home.
Lady Xing, Li Wan, Xi-feng, Bao-yu and other members of the family were lined up on both sides of the courtyard before the main hall of Rong-guo House to greet first Grandmother Jia, then Jia Zheng and Lady Wang as they returned.
Our narrative passes over the tearful family scene.
Early next day, all members of the family with official rank went to the Palace to pay their last respects, and to mourn as the rites prescribed.
The details of Yuan-chuns tomb were the responsibility of the Minister of Works, and Jia Zheng found himself being frequently entertained by his President, and consulted by his colleagues.
It was a very busy time - not at all like the period of the previous court funerals for the Dowager Empress and the Zhou Concubine.
Because Yuan-chun had died without issue, she was given the posthumous title Illustrious and Chaste Imperial Concubine.
This was in conformity with state precedent.
But of this no more.
Everyone in the Jia family was kept extremely busy, travelling to and from the Palace daily for the duration of the funeral Luckily Xi-fengs health had improved a little of late, and she was able to get up and manage the household.
She was also preparing to celebrate the return of Wang Zi-teng.
Her own elder brother, Wang Ren, now that his uncle was to be a Privy Councillor and in a posi t ion of such influence, was also on his way to the capital with his family.
Xi-feng was glad of this.
The knowledge that she would have these extra Wangs around her also gave her renewed confidence, and had a beneficial effect on her health.
Lady Wang, no w that Xi-feng was up and about again, unloaded half of her responsibilities onto her, and with the reassuring prospect of having her elder brother back in the capital soon, felt more at peace.
Bao-yu was not entitled to attend any of his eldest sisters funeral ceremonies, as he held no official rank.
He did no work either, and was left undisturbed in his idleness the Preceptor attributed his state to the recent family events, while Jia Zheng was far too busy to keep a check on his sons studies.
Our hero might have been expected to seize this as an ideal opportunity to amuse himself in the delightful company of his sister and cousins.
But from the day he lost his jade, he just sat around all the time d9ing nothing, and if he spoke, did so in an incoherent mumble.
When Grandmother Jia and the others returned from the Palace, he went over to pay his respects if told to do so if not, he stayed where he was.
All this time Aroma and his other maids grew more and more guilty and apprehensive.
They dared not take him to task, for fear that he might have a tantrum.
Each day he drank, his tea and ate his meals, when they were placed before him.
But he would as soon have gone without.
It eventually dawned on Aroma that this was not just a mood of his, but a genuine illness.
When she had a free moment, she slipped over to the Naiads House, and had a word with Nightingale.
If only your Mistress would talk to him, and try to cheer him up, she said.
Nightingale passed this message on to Dai-yu straight away.
But Dai-yu now saw herself as Bao-yus future bride, and felt a need to behave towards.
him with scrupulous modesty.
If he should come to see me, she argued with herself, I should have to receive him politely, for the sake of our childhood friendship.
But as for going over to see him myself, that is quite out of the question.
So she turned a deaf ear to Aromas entreaties.
Aroma next went secretly to tell Tan-chun.
But Tan-chun was herself plunged in gloom.
To her mind, the strange flowering of the crab-trees had been the first of a series of ill omens, followed by the still stranger loss of the Precious Jade, and now by her sisters death.
With the family fortunes so evidently on the decline, how could she find it in herself to rally Bao-yus spirits?
Besides, as brother and sister, they were obliged to maintain a certain distance.
She did visit him once or twice, but he seemed indifferent to her presence and she made no further efforts.
Bao-chai also knew of the missing jade.
Her mother had already told her of her proposed betrothal to Bao-yu, the day she discussed it with Lady Wang and all but consented.
Although it is your Aunt Wangs proposal, she had said to Bao-chai, I have still not given my final consent.
I said we should have to wait until Pan comes home.
What do you say to the idea?
Are you willing?
Mother, replied Bao-chai, in a most serious tone, you dont need to ask me.
A daughters future lies in her parents hands.
Since Father is dead, the decision is entirely yours.
Consult Pan, if you wish, but why me?
Aunt Xue was most touched by this display of modesty in her daughter, proof that her basically sound character had not been in any way spoiled by her luxurious upbringing.
She would not mention Bao-yus name to her again.
Bao-chai for her part maintained a strict taboo from that day forth on those two syllables.
So when she came to hear of the missing jade, despite the concern she felt, she refrained from inquiring any further and contented herself with what she gleaned from those around her, while maintaining a show of complete indifference.
Aunt Xue, on the other hand, sent a maid over several times to inquire after Bao-yu.
She was also greatly concerned about her own son, and awaited her elder brothers arrival with impatience.
His influence would surely secure Pans release.
With the death of the Imperial Concubine, she could see how busy the Jias were.
But as Xi-feng was well enough to take charge of the household management, she did not feel it necessary to visit them often.
The one to suffer most during all this was Aroma, although she tried to remain quiet and calm, and to comfort Bao-yu and minister to his needs.
He seemed to understand nothing, and she could only watch over him in secret anguish.
After a few days, Yuan-chuns coffin was laid out in the Imperial Chapel of Rest, and Grandmother Jia and the other senior members of the family attended funeral services there for several days.
Bao-yu was becoming daily more and more of an imbecile.
He had no fever and was not in any physical pain, but he was eating little and sleeping less and becoming quite incoherent in his speech.
Aroma, Musk and the other maids were at their wits end, and several times went to report to Xi-feng, who came over constantly to see how he was.
At first she had thought that he was simply upset that his jade had not been found.
But now, seeing the deranged state into which he was sinking, she sent for the doctor.
The doctor paid daily visits, and more than one kind of medicine was prescribed, but all seemed to do more harm than good.
To all inquiries as to where he felt pain, he was quite unable to reply.
When Yuan-chuns funeral ceremonies were over, Grandmother Jias thoughts turned again to Bao-yu, and she came to the Garden to visit him, accompanied by Lady Wang.
Aroma told Bao-yu to go out and greet her properly.
Bao-yu was still able to get about, and managed to greet his grandmother presentably, with Aroma at his side prompting him at every turn.
My dear boy!
exclaimed Grandmother Jia.
I am so relieved!
I was led to believe that you were seriously ill.
But now I see that you are quite your normal self.
Lady Wang too seemed pleasantly surprised.
Bao-yu said nothing and gave an inane grin.
They went in and sat down.
When Grandmother Jia asked him a question, he could only repeat whatever Aroma said.
It soon became clear to them all that so far from being his normal self, he was now little more than a halfwit.
The more Grandmother Jia saw, the more it puzzled and distressed her.
When I came in, she said, he seemed quite well.
But I can see now that he really is seriously ill.
He seems to have quite lost his wits.
Will someone please tell me what has happened?
Lady Wang realized that they could not keep it from her any longer.
For Aromas sake, who stood there in mortal terror, she stuck to Bao-yus story and told Grandmother Jia that he had lost his jade at the Earl of Lin-ans party, whispering it all in the old ladys ear, afraid it might come as too great a shock to her.
The servants have been told to look everywhere, she added.
We have asked several fortune-tellers, and they all say that its in a pawnshop, so it can only be a matter of time before we find it.
Grandmother Jia rose to her feet in great agitation, tears streaming down her cheeks.
How could he lose such a precious thing?
You are not fit to look after him!
What about his father?
Surely he has not washed his hands of it too?
Lady Wang could see that Grandmother Jia was in a rage.
She told Aroma and the others to kneel, and herself replied, with contrite face and lowered head I was afraid you would be upset, Mother, and that his father would be angry, so I still have not told him.
But cant you see?
cried Grandmother Jia.
The jade is Bao-yus very life.
Losing it is what has made him lose his wits.
What are we going to do?
People all over town have heard of the jade.
If someone picks it up, hes hardly going to hand it in.
Send someone at once to his father and ask him to come here.
I must speak to him about this.
Lady Wang, Aroma and all the others present were terrified of the possible consequences and entreated Grandmother Jia to relent.
Imagine how angry Sir Zheng will be, Mother!
Think of poor Bao-yu!
For his sake, give us one last chance.
We will search for all we are worth.
Why should you fear his fathers wrath?
I shall be here, said the old lady firmly.
She told Musk to send someone for Jia Zheng.
Minutes later, the message returned that he was out visiting a friend.
Well, well go ahead without him, said Grandmother Jia.
For the present, none of the servants is to be punished.
Those are my instructions, and I shall take full responsibility.
Send for Lian and tell him to write out a Notice of Reward, and post copies of it wherever Bao-yu went on the day he lost his jade.
It is to say Reward for return of jade, ten thousand taels of silver.
Reward for information leading to its recovery, five thousand taels.
And there is to be no question of not paying up in full if someone does come forward.
This is the only way we shall ever find it.
If we rely on our own people, we could go on searching for the rest of our lives.
Lady Wang did not dare voice her reservations about this plan of action.
Jia Lian was sent for, and told to have the posters made up with all speed.
Move Bao-yus things to my apartment, Grandmother Jia ordered one of the servants.
I shall Only need Aroma and Ripple to wait on him.
The rest can stay here and look after his apartment.
Bao-yu remained silent throughout all of this, grinning inanely.
Grandmother J ia took him by the hand and led him out, Aroma and the others clustering round to support him as far as the garden gate.
When they reached her apartment, Grandmother Jia told Lady Wang to sit down, and herself supervised the putting in order of the inner room.
When this was done, she spoke to Lady Wang You know why I have brought him over here, dont you?
In the first place, there are so few people living in the garden now, and I cant help feeling theres something odd about the way those crab-trees in his courtyard died so suddenly, and then so suddenly flowered.
Before now he could always rely on his jade to keep any evil influences at bay.
But now that it is lost, I am afraid the evil can get in more easily.
So I thought it best for him to stay here with me.
He had better not go out for a few days.
When the doctor comes, he can see him here.
Of course you are right, said Lady Wang promptly.
Your good luck will shelter him from any such influences, now that he is here.
My luck!
Nothing of the sort!
It is quieter here, that is all, and there are plently of sutras for him to, read, to help settle his mind.
Ask him if he agrees.
When his mother put the question to him, Bao-yu merely smiled.
Finally, prompted by Aroma, he answered, Yes Mother.
Lady Wang was moved to tears by the pitiful spectacle her son presented, but contained herself in Grandmother Jias presence.
Grandmother Jia could see that she was somewhat overwrought, and told her to go back to her own apartment.
Leave him to me.
I shall look after him.
When his father gets home this evening, tell him there is no need for him to come and see me today.
I do not want him to know yet.
When Lady Wang had left, Grandmother Jia told Faithful to bring her one of her sedative remedies.
Bao-yu took it and there we must leave them, for the present.
Jia Zheng, on his way home that evening, heard from within his carriage the following conversation in the street If you want to get rich, I know of an easy way... Oh?
Whats that?
I heard today that at Rong-guo House one of the young nobs has lost a jade, and theyve posted a notice of reward, with all the details - shape, size, colour, etc.
Ten thousand theyre offering to anyone who hands it in, and five thousand for information!
Jia Zheng did not catch every word.
But he heard enough to be considerably alarmed.
He hurried home, and on arrival summoned one of the janitors and questioned him bout the whole affair.
I knew nothing of all this until today, sir, replied the janitor.
The first I heard of it was this afternoon, when Mr Lian gave us Her Old Ladyships orders to put the posters up.
We are doomed!
said Jia Zheng to himself with a bitter sigh.
This son of mine is the bane of our lives!
When he was a child he was the talk of the, neighbourhood.
It has taken us these last ten years or more to stop their tongues, and now we have to go putting up a poster like this, announcing our troubles to the world!
He went in without further delay and questioned Lady Wang, who told him the whole story.
When he learnt that the reward was the old ladys idea, Jia Zheng knew that he could not very well openly oppose it.
He criticized Lady Wang instead for her part in it, and going out once more, gave orders for the posters to be taken down without Grandmother Jias knowledge.
As it turned out, some local loafers had already pulled them down.
Despite this, a day or two later, a man did arrive at the main gate of Rong-guo House, claiming to have brought the jade.
The servants were ecstatic.
Give it here!
they cried.
Well take it in for you.
Not so fast!
The man fumbled inside his gown, and brought out the reward poster.
Look here, he said, pointing to the wording on the poster.
This is what your masters put up, isnt it?
Ten thousand taels for return of jade - plain as daylight.
I may be a pauper today, my man, but wait till I come into my ten thousand.
Youll sing a different tune then.
The gateman could see he was a difficult customer.
Well at least give us a look, so we can go in and report.
At first the man refused.
But eventually he allowed himself to be persuaded, and producing it from within his gown, he exhibited the jade to them fleetingly on the palm of his hand, saying Isnt this what you are looking for?
Now these servants were all employed on external duties, and though they had heard tell of Bao-yus jade, had hardly ever set eyes on it.
This was in fact their first opportunity of inspecting the thing at close quarters.
This did not deter them from running into the house in a great state of excitement, racing to be the first with the news.
They found that both Jia Zheng and Jia She were out.
It was Jia Lian who received their report., Is it genuine or a fake?
he asked them sceptically.
I saw it with my own eyes!
replied one of them.
He wouldnt hand it over to us though, but insisted on seeing one of the masters, so that he could exchange it directly for the money.
Jia Lian could not help being infected by their enthusiasm, and went in straight away to tell Lady Wang and Grandmother Jia.
Aroma, when she heard, was overjoyed, and brought her hands piously together in a prayer of thanks to Lord Buddha.
Grandmother Jia stood firmly by her word.
Tell Lian to invite him into the study at once, she said to Lady Wang in a flurry of excitement.
Once we have had a look at it, he will get his money straight away.
Jia Lian did as instructed and invited the stranger in, treating him most politely and expressing profuse thanks.
I should just like to let the owner have a look at it, if I may, he said.
Then you shall have your money, every penny of it, I assure you.
Reluctantly, the man handed him a little parcel wrapped in red silk.
Jia Lian opened it.
There lay a lustrous jade.
Surely this was it!
Jia Lian, to tell the truth, had never taken much, notice of it while it hung round Bao-yus neck.
Now he looked closely at it for some time.
The inscription was certainly familiar.
He remembered some of the words, such as dispels the harms of witchcraft.
With a jubilant air, he strode in to show it to the ladies, leaving a servant to wait on the stranger.
By now the whole family had heard the news, and were gathered in Grandmother Jias apartment, waiting eagerly, each one anxious to be the first to see.
Xi-feng saw Jia Lian come in, and thrusting forward her hand, snatched the parcel from him and without looking at it herself, placed it in Grandmother Jias hand.
Cant you even let me take the credit for a small thing like this?
said Jia Lian with a sneer.
Grandmother Jia opened the silk bundle and examined the stone.
It seemed a great deal duller than she remembered.
She rubbed it between her fingers.
Faithful brought her spectacles, and put them on for her.
She examined it again.
How peculiar!
This must surely be it and yet it seems to have lost its original lustre entirely.
Lady Wang now inspected it.
She too felt unable to identify it with any certainty, and told Xi-feng to come over and take a look.
There is a certain similarity, said Xi-feng after her inspection.
But the colour is not quite right.
W should show it to Bao-yu himself.
He will be able to tell.
Aroma was standing at her side, and had managed to have a look at the stone.
Her eyes told her that it was not the one, but her heart was too full of hope to allow her to voice her misgivings.
Xi-feng took the stone from Grandmother Jias hands and went with Aroma to show it to Bao-yu, who had just awoken.
Your stone has been found!
announced Aroma.
Bao-yus eyes were still heavy with sleep.
He took the stone in his hand, and without so much as a glance, let it drop to the ground.
Why try to fool me!
he said, smiling strangely.
Xi-feng picked it up promptly.
Thats odd, she said.
How can you tell without even looking at it?
Bao-yu only smiled again.
Lady Wang had come in meanwhile, and observed what happened.
It is perfectly natural, she commented.
That strange jade came into the world with him, it is his very own.
He would be bound to know whether this was genuine or not.
Someone must have read the reward-notice and faked -1536 it.
The truth dawned on them all.
Jia Lian, who heard it all from the outer room, said at once If it is a fake, give it to me!
Ill have it out with this impostor!
How dare he play a trick on us, in such a -1536 serious matter!
No, Lian!
ordered Grandmother Jia.
Give it back to him, and tell him to leave.
No doubt he was desperately poor, and when he read the notice, saw a way of making a few pennies.
Its understandable.
Now he has been found out, and whatever it cost him to make the thing has been wasted too.
Dont be too hard on him.
Give him back the jade, and just say that it S not ours, and theres been a mistake.
Give him a few taels of silver.
If people hear that hes been well treated, it will encourage someone with genuine information to come forward.
If we treat this one harshly,.
no one will bring it in even if they do find it.
Jia Lian went as bidden.
The impostor had been waiting in the study, and as time went by and no one returned, had already begun to lose his nerve.
Now he saw the irate figure of Jia Lian advancing into the room.
For the outcome of their subsequent interview, please read the next chapter.
CHAPTER 96 Xifeng conceives an ingenious plan of deception And Frowner is deranged by an inadvertent disclosure When he saw the scowl on Jia Lians face, the impostors heart sank.
He rose nervously to greet him, but before he could say a word, Jia Lian gave a chilling laugh and silenced him with Impudent fool!
I should like to wring your miserable little... Do you realize who you are dealing with?
How dare you play such tricks on us?
Turning, he called for his pages.
The order was echoed outside like a clap of thunder, and several pages responded in unison and presented themselves.
Fetch a rope and bind this fellow!
order Jia Lian.
When the Master returns, I shall report the matter and pack him off to the yamen.
Ready, sir!
cried the chorus of pages.
But not one of them moved a muscle.
The impostor was at first immobilized with terror.
But Jia Lians hectoring, and the prospect of being taken to court, finally stirred him to action.
He fell on his knees and kotowed franticaily in Jia Lians direction, jabbering Your Honour!
Spare me!
It was poverty f9rced me to it!
I know it was ashameful thing to do.
I had to borrow money to have it made, but please keep it and give it to the young master of the house with my humble compliments, to play with!
Repeated head-knocking followed.
Jia Lian spat contemptuously.
Idiot!
We certainly dont want any of your trash here!
At this point, Lai Da came into the room.
Do not waste your anger on this creature, sir, he interceded, with a placatory smile.
Spare him this once, and throw him out.
Why should I?
The worm While Jia Lian and Lai Da continued to haggle over the poor mans fate, the servants standing in the doorway offered him their advice Come on, you great ninny!
Kotow to Mr Lian and Mr Lai, and clear off!
What are you waiting for?
A kick in the stomach?
The man was down in a flash, kotowed to Jia Lian and Lai Da, wrapped his hands round the back of his head and fled like a rat.
This episode became known in the locality as the case of Master Jia Bao-yu and the Counterfeit Jia Precious Jade Bao-yu.
When Jia Zheng returned home that same day from a visit, no one told him what had happened in his absence.
They thought that with the Lantern Festival coming up, it would be a mistake to make him angry about something that was, after all, over and done with.
What with Yuan-chuns death, and their concern at Bao-yus illness, the family was far too gloomy and preoccupied to celebrate New Year in anything but a perfunctory fashion, and it passed by without any event worthy of notice in this chronicle.
By the seventeenth of the first month, when Lady Wang was expecting her brother to arrive in the capital any day, she had an unannounced visit from Xi-feng Lian has just come home with a piece of bad news, Aunt.
It is about Uncle Zi-teng.
He was travelling post-haste on his way to the capital, and was only seventy miles from here, when he died.
Had you heard?
No!
exclaimed Lady Wang, aghast.
Sir Zheng didnt mention anything of the sort yesterday evening.
Where did Lian hear this?
At the home of Excellency Zhang from the Privy Council.
Lady Wang stared in silence.
Tears started from her eyes.
Wiping them away, she finally said Go and tell Lian to get confirmation of the news, and to see me as soon as he has.
Xi-feng departed as bidden.
Left on her own, Lady Wang gave way to her tears.
A brother and daughter dead, a son deranged - she could contain her burden of grief and anxiety no longer.
She began to feel a pain in her chest.
And here was Jia Lian to confirm the story Uncle was exhausted by the strain of the journey, and caught a chill.
They were at Ten Mile Village when this happened.
A doctor was called, but the only one available in such a remote spot turned out to be incompetent.
He prescribed the wrong drugs, and the first dose proved fatal.
Uncles own family have set out for the place already, but I do not know if they have arrived yet.
These details touched Lady Wang to the quick, and the pain in her chest became so severe that she could no longer sit upright.
She told Suncloud to help her onto the kang, and struggling to keep a grip on herself, told Jia Lian to report at once to Jia Zheng.
Pack your things as quickly as you can, and go straight there to join the family and help them with the funeral arrangements.
Come back as soon as possible and let us know how things stand.
I know Xi-feng will not set her mind at rest until you are back.
Jia Lian could see that it would be inappropriate to raise any objections.
He took his leave of Jia Zheng, and set out for Ten Mile Village.
Jia Zheng had learned the news of Wang Zi-tengs death independently.
Depressed already by the moronic decline into which his son had fallen since the loss of his jade, a condition no doctor seemed- able to cure, he responded with extreme gloom to this latest blow and to Lady Wangs attack following upon it.
The time had come round for the triennial review of civil servants stationed in the capital.
Jia Zhengs Board gave him a high commendation, and in the second month the Board of Civil Office presented him for an audience with the Emperor.
His Majesty, in view of Jia Zhengs record as a diligent, frugal, conscientious and prudent servant of the Throne, appointed him immediately to the post of Grain Intendant for the province of Kiangsi.
The same day, Jia Zheng offered his humble acceptance and gratitude for the honour, and suggested a day for his departure.
Friends and relatives were all eager to celebrate, but he was not in festive mood.
He was loth to leave the capital at a time when things were so unsettled at home, although at the same time he knew that he could not delay his departure.
He was pondering this dilemma, when a message came to summon him to Grandmother Jias presence.
He made his way promptly to her apartment, where he found Lady Wang also present, despite her illness.
He paid his respects to Grandmother Jia, who told him to be seated and then began In a few days, you will be leaving us to take up your post.
There is something I should like to discuss with you, if you are willing.
The old ladys eyes were wet with tears.
Jia Zheng rose swiftly to his feet, and said Whatever you have to say, Mother, please speak your word is my command.
I shall be eighty-one this year said Grandmother Jia, sobbing as she spoke.
You are going away to a post in the provinces, and with your elder brother still at home, you will not be able to apply for early retirement to come and look after me.
When you are gone, of the ones closest to my heart I shall only have Bao-yu left to me.
And he, poor darling, is in such a wretched state, I dont know what we can do for him!
The other day I sent out Lai Shengs wife to have the boys fortune told.
The mans reading was uncanny.
What he said was "This person must marry a lady with a destiny of gold, to help him and support him.
He must be given a marriage as soon as possible to turn his luck.
If not, he may not live.
Now I know you dont believe in such things, which is why I sent for you, to talk it over with you.
You and his mother must discuss it among yourselves.
Are we to save him, or are we to do nothing and watch him fade away?
Jia Zheng smiled anxiously.
Could I, who as a child received such tender love and care from you, Mother, not have fatherly feelings myself?
It is just that I have been exasperated by his repeated failure to make progress in his studies, and have perhaps been too ambitious for him.
You are perfectly right in wanting to see him married.
How could I possibly wish to oppose you?
I am concerned for the boy, and his recent illness has caused me great anxiety.
But as you have kept him from me, I have not ventured to say anything.
I should like to see him now for myself, and form my own impression of his condition.
Lady Wang saw that his eyes were moist, and knew that he was genuinely concerned.
She told Aroma to fetch Bao-yu and help him into the room.
He walked in, and when Aroma told him to pay his respects to his father, did exactly as she said.
Jia Zheng saw how emaciated his face had grown, how lifeless his eyes were.
His son was like some pathetic simpleton.
He told them to take him back to his room.
I shall soon be sixty myself, he mused.
With this provincial posting, it is difficult to tell how many years it will be before I return.
If anything were to happen to Bao-yu, I should be left without an heir in my old age.
I have a grandson, but that is not the same.
And then Bao-yu is the old ladys favourite.
If anything untoward occurred, I should be still more deeply at fault.
He glanced at Lady Wang.
Her face was wet with tears.
He thought of the sorrow it would cause her too, and stood up again to speak.
If, from your wealth of experience, you have thought of a way to help him, Mother, then how could I possibly raise any objection?
We should do whatever you think is best.
But has Mrs Xue been informed?
My sister has already expressed her agreement, replied Lady Wang.
We have only been biding our time because Pans court-case has still not been settled.
Yes, that is certainly the first obstacle, commented Jia Zheng.
How can a girl be given in marriage while her elder brother is in jail?
And besides there is Her Graces death.
Although that does not strictly entail any such prohibition, Bao-yu should at least abide by the set term of mourning for a deceased elder sister, which would mean a period 6f nine months during which marriage would be highly irregular.
And then, my own date of departure has already been reported to the throne, and I cannot postpone it now.
That only leaves us a few days.
There is not enough time.
Grandmother Jia pondered her sons words.
What he says is true, she thought to herself.
If we wait for all of these conditions to be fulfilled, his father will have left, and who knows to what state the boys health may deteriorate.
And then it may be too late.
We shall have to put aside the rules for once.
There is no other way.
Having reached this conclusion in her own mind, she spoke to Jia Zheng again.
If you will agree to this for him, I shall take care of any problems that may arise.
There is nothing that cannot be ironed out, of that I am confident.
His mother and I shall go over and put the matter personally to Mrs Xue.
As for Pan, I shall ask young Ke to go to him and explain that we are doing this to save Bao-yus life.
When he knows the reason, I am sure he will agree.
As for marrying during a period of mourning, strictly speaking one shouldnt, I know.
And besides, it is not right for him to marry while lie is so ill.
But its a question of turning his luck.
Both families are willing, and as the children have the bond of gold and jade to justify their union, we can dispense with the usual reading of horoscopes.
We just need to choose an auspicious day to exchange presents in proper style, and then set a date for the wedding itself, possible afterwards.
No music during the wedding itself, but otherwise we can follow court practice twelve pairs of long-handled lanterns and an eight-man palanquin for the bride.
We shall have the ceremony in our southern form, and keep our old customs of throwing dried fruit onto the bridal bed and so forth.
That will be enough to make it quite a proper wedding.
Bao-chai is a sensible girl.
We need not worry on her account.
And Aroma is a very reliable person.
We can count on her to have a calming influence on Bao-yu.
She gets on well with Bao-chai too.
One other thing.
Mrs Xue once told us that a monk said Bao-chai should only marry someone with a jade to match her golden locket.
Perhaps when she comes to live as Bao-yus wife, her locket will draw the jade back.
Once they are married, things will look up and the whole family will benefit.
So, we must prepare a courtyard and decorate it nicely - I should like you to choose it.
We shant be inviting any friends or relations to the wedding, and we can have the party later, when Bao-yu is better and the mourning period is over.
This way, everything will be done in time, and you will be able to see the young people married and set off with an easy mind.
Jia Zheng had grave doubts about the proposal.
But as it was Grandmother Jias, he knew he could not go against it.
He smiled dutifully, and hastened to reply You have thought it all out very well, Mother, and have taken everything into account.
We must tell the servants not to go talking about this to everyone they meet.
It would hardly redound to our credit if people knew.
And personally I doubt if Mrs Xue will agree to the idea.
But if she does, then I suppose we should do as you suggest.
You need not worry about Mrs Xue, said the old lady.
I can explain things to her.
Off you go then.
Jia Zheng took his leave.
He felt extremely uneasy about the whole idea.
Official business soon engulfed him, however - acceptance of his new papers of appointment.. recommendations of staff from friends and relatives, an endless round of social gatherings of one sort or another and he delegated all responsibility for the marriage plans to Grandmother J ia, who in turn left the arrangements to Lady Wang and Xi-feng.
Jia Zhengs only contributioh was to designate a twenty-frame building in a courtyard behind the Hall of Exalted Felicity, to he side of Lady Wangs private apartment, as Bao-yus new home.
Grandmother Jias mind was now quite made up, and when she sent someone to communicate this to Jia Zheng he just replied Very well.
But of this, more later.
Bao-yu, after his brief interview with his father, was escorted back by Aroma to his kang in the inner room.
Intimidated by the Masters presence in the next room, none of the maids dared speak to him and he soon fell into a deep sleep.
As a consequence he did not hear a word of the conversation between his father and Grandmother J ia.
Aroma and the others did, however, and stood in complete silence taking it all in.
Aroma had heard rumours of this marriage-plan, rumours whose.
likelihood, it is true, had been strengthened by Bao-chais repeated absence from family gatherings.
Now that she knew it for a fact, all became crystal clear.
She was glad.
Theyve shown some sense at last!
she thought to herself, Those two will make by far the better match.
And I shall be better off too.
With Miss Chai here Ill be able to unload a lot of my responsibilities.
The only trouble is, Master Bao still thinks of no one but Miss Li.... Its a good thing he didnt hear just now.
If he knew what they are planning, I dread to think what trouble wed have.
This cast a shadow over her previous optimism.
Whats to be done?
she continued to brood to herself.
Her Old Ladyship and Her Ladyship obviously dont know about the secret feelings Master Bao and Miss Lin have for each other, and in their enthusiasm they could tell him their plan, to try and cure him.
But if he still feels as he did -when he first saw Miss Lin, for instance, and hurled his jade to the ground and wanted to smash it to pieces or last summer in the Garden, when he mistook me for her and poured his heart out to me or when Nightingale teased him by saying that Miss Lin was going away, and had him in such floods of tears - and if they go and tell him now that hes betrothed to Miss Chai and will have to give Miss Lin up for ever, so far from turning his luck theyll probably kill him!
Unless of course hes going through one of his deaf-and-dumb spells, in which case he probably wont even nonce.
Id better tell them what I know, or three people may suffer!
Aromas mind was made up.
As soon as Jia Zheng had taken hi leave of the ladies, she left Ripple to look after Bao-yu, and went into the outer room.
She walked over to Lady Wang and whispered that she would like a word with her privately in the room to the rear of Grandmother J ias apartment.
Grandmother Jia imagined it to be some message from Bao-yu and did not pay much attention, but continued to engross herself in the wedding arrangements.
Lady Wang rose to leave, and Aroma followed her into the rear chamber, where she at once fell on her knees and began crying.
Lady Wang had no idea what it was all about, and taking her by the hand, said Come now!
What is all this?
Has someone done you wrong?
If so, stand up, and tell me.
It is something I shouldnt really say, but in the circumstances I feel I must.
Well, tell me then.
And take your time.
You and Her Old Ladyship have made an excellent decision, in choosing Miss Bao-chai as Bao-yus future bride ... began Aroma.
But, I wonder, maam, if you have noticed which of the two young ladies Bao-yu is more closely attached to, Miss Chai, or Miss Lin?
As they have lived together since they were children, replied Lady Wang, I suppose he would be a little closer to Miss Lin.
More than a little!
protested Aroma, and went on to give Lady Wang a detailed history of how things had always stood between Bao-yu and Dai-yu, and of the various incidents that had occurred between them.
These are all things that you would have seen for yourself, maam, she added, with the exception of his outburst during the summer, which I have not mentioned to a soul until now.
Lady Wang drew Aroma towards her.
Yes, most of what you have told me I have been able to deduce for myself.
What you have said simply bears out my own observations.
But you must all have heard the Masters words.
Tell me, how did Bao-yu react?
As things are at present, maam, Bao-yu smiles if someone talks to him, but otherwise he just sleeps.
He heard nothing.
In that case, what are we to do?
It is not my place to say, replied Aroma.
Your Ladyship should inform Her Old Ladyship of what I have said, and think of a suitable way of solving the problem.
Then you had better go, said Lady Wang, and leave it to me.
Now would not be a good moment to bring it up there are too many people in the room.
I shall wait for an opportunity to tell Her Old Ladyship, and we will discuss what to do.
Lady Wang returned to Grandmother Jias apartment.
The old lady was talking to Xi-feng, and when she saw Lady Wang come in, asked What did Aroma want?
What was all that mysterious whispering about?
Lady Wang answered her directly, and told the whole story of Bao-yus love for Dai-yu, as Aroma had told it her.
When she had finished, Grandmother Jia was silent for a long while.
Neither Lady Wang nor Xi-feng dared say a word.
At last, Grandmother Jia sighed and said Everything else seemed somehow soluble.
It does not matter so much about Dai-yu.
But if Bao-yu really feels this way about her, it seems we have run into an insoluble problem.
Xi-feng looked very thoughtful for a minute, then said Not insoluble.
I think I can see a solution.
But I am not sure if you would agree to it or not, Aunt.
Whatever your idea is, said Lady Wang, speak up and let Mother know.
Then we can all discuss it together.
There is only one solution that I can think of, said Xifeng.
It involves two things a white lie, and a piece of discreet substitution.
Substitution?
What do you mean?
asked Grandmother Jia.
First of all, replied Xi-feng, whether Bao-yu knows anything yet or not, we let it be known that Sir Zheng proposes to betroth him to Miss Lin.
We must watch for his reaction.
If he is quite unaffected, then there is no need to bother with my plan.
But if he does seem at all pleased at the news, it will make things rather more complicated.
Supposing he is pleased?
asked Lady Wang.
What then?
Xi-feng went over and whispered at some length in Lady Wangs ear.
Lady Wang nodded, smiled and said Well, well... An ingenious idea, I must say!
Come on, you two!
exclaimed Grandmother Jia.
Let me in on the secret what are you whispering about?
Xi-feng was afraid that Grandmother J ia might not grasp her idea at once, and might inadvertently give the game away.
She leant across and whispered in the old ladys ear.
Grandmother Jia did seem rather puzzled at first.
Xi-feng smiled, and added a few more words of explanation.
Grandmother Jia finally said with a smile Why not?
But isnt it rather hard on Bao-chai?
And what about Miss Lin?
What if she gets to hear of it?
We shall only tell Bao-yu replied Xi-feng.
No one else will be allowed to mention it.
That way no one need know.
A maid came in and informed them that Mr Lian had returned.
Lady Wang was worried that Grandmother Jia might inquire into the distressing news that had occasioned his journey, and cast a meaningful glance in Xifengs direction.
Xi-feng went out to intercept him, and signalled to him with her lips to accompany her to Lady Wangs apartment and wait there.
It was not long before Lady Wang came in, to find Xi-feng red-eyed from weeping.
Jia Lian paid his respects to Lady Wang, and gave her an account of the funeral arrangements for Wang Zi-teng at Ten Mile Village.
He has been posthumously awarded the rank of Grand Secretary, by Imperial Decree, Jia Lian went on, and the title Lord Wen-qin.
The Court has given instructions for the family to accompany the coffin en cortege to Nanking, and all local mandarins have been instructed to look after them en route.
The whole family left yesterday for the South.
Uncles widow asked me to convey her respects.
She said that there was so much she wanted to talk to you about, but that she would not be able to come to the capital at present.
My brother-in-law Wang Ren is coming here, so I heard, and if they meet him on the way, they will tell him to come and give us the latest news.
Lady Wang responded to all of this with a grief that the reader can surely imagine.
Why dont you lie down for a while, Aunt?
said Xi-feng.
In the evening, we can talk further about Bao-yus affairs.
Having uttered these comforting words, Xi-feng returned with Jia Lian to her own apartment, where she informed him of all that had been decided and told him to give instructions for the cleaning and refurbishing of the courtyard that was to be the couples new home.
But of this no more for the present.
A day or two after these events, Dai-yu, having eaten her breakfast, decided to take Nightingale with her to visit Grandmother Jia.
She wanted to pay her respects, and also thought the visit might provide some sort of distraction for herself.
She had hardly left the Naiads House, when she remembered that she had left her handkerchief at home, and sent Nightingale back to fetch it, saying that she would walk ahead slowly and wait for her to catch up.
She had just reached the corner behind the rockery at Drenched Blossoms Bridge - the very spot where she had once buried the flowers with Bao-yu - when all of a sudden she heard the sound of sobbing.
She stopped at once and listened.
She could not tell whose voice it was, nor could she distinguish what it was that the voice was complaining of, so tearfully and at such length.
It really was most puzzling.
She moved forward again cautiously and as she turned the corner, saw before her the source of the sobbing, a maid with large eyes and thick-set eyebrows.
Before setting eyes on this girl, Dai-yu had guessed that one of the many maids in the Jia household must have had an unhappy.
love-affair, and had come here to cry her heart out in secret.
But now she laughed at the very idea.
How could such an ungainly creature as this know the meaning of love?
she thought to herself.
This must be one of the odd-job girls, who has probably been scolded by one of the senior maids.
She looked more closely, but still could not place the girl.
Seeing Dai-yu, the maid ceased her weeping, wiped her cheeks, and rose to her feet.
Come now, what are you so upset about?
inquired Dai-yu.
Oh Miss Lin!
replied the maid, amid fresh tears.
Tell me if you think it fair.
They were talking about it, and how was I to know better?
Just because I say one thing wrong, is that a reason for sister to start hitting me?
Dai-yu did not know what she was talking about.
She smiled, and asked again Who is your sister?
Pearl, answered the maid.
From this, Dai-yu concluded that she must work in Grandmother Jias apartment.
And what is your name?
Simple.
Dai-yu laughed.
Then Why did she hit you?
What did you say that was so wrong?
Thats what Id like to know!
It was only to do with Master Bao marrying Miss Chai!
The words struck Dai-yus ears like a clap of thunder.
Her heart started thumping fiercely.
She tried to calm herself for a moment, and told the maid to come with her.
The maid followed her to the secluded corner of the garden, where the Flower Burial Mound was situated.
Here Dai-yu asked her Why should she hit you for mentioning Master Baos marriage to Miss Chai?
Her Old Ladyship, Her Ladyship and Mrs Lian, replied Simple, have decided that as the Master is leaving soon, they are going to arrange with Mrs Xue to marry Master Bao and Miss Chai as uickly as possible.
They want the wedding to turn his luck, and then...
Her voice tailed off.
She stared at Dai-yu, laughed and continued Then, as soon as those two are married, they are going to find a husband for you, Miss Lin.
Dai-yu was speechless with horror.
The maid went on regardless But how was I to know that theyd decided to keep it quiet, for fear of embarrassing Miss Chai?
All I did was say to Aroma, that serves in Master Baos room "Wont it be a fine to-do here soon, when Miss Chai comes over, or Mrs Bao... what will we have to call her?
Thats all I said.
What was there in that to hurt sister Pearl?
Can you see, Miss Lin?
She came across and hit me straight in the face and said I was talking rubbish and disobeying orders, and would be dismissed from service!
How was I to know their Ladyships didnt want us to mention it?
Nobody told me, and she just hit me!
She started sobbing again.
Dai-yus heart felt as though oil, soy-sauce, sugar and vinegar had all been poured into it at once.
She could not tell which flavour predominated, the sweet, the sour, the bitter or the salty.
After a few moments silence, she said in a trembling voice Dont talk such rubbish.
Any more of that, and youll be beaten again.
Off you go!
She herself turned back in the direction of the Naiads House.
Her body felt as though it weighed a hundred tons, her feet were as wobbly as if she were walking on cotton-floss.
She could only manage one step at a time.
After an age, she still had not reached the bank by Drenched Blossoms Bridge.
She was going so slowly, with her feet about to collapse beneath her, and in her giddiness and confusion had wandered off course and increased the distance by about a hundred yards.
She reached Drenched Blossoms Bridge only to start drifting back again along the bank in the direction she ha4 just come from, quite unaware of what she was doing.
Nightingale had by now returned with the handkerchief, but could not find Dai-yu anywhere.
She finally saw her, pale as snow, tottering along, her eyes staring straight in front of her, meandering in circles.
Nightingale also caught sight of a maid disappearing in the distance beyond Dai-yu, but could not make out who it was.
She was most bewildered, and quickened her step.
Why are you turning back again, Miss?
she asked softly.
Where are you heading for?
Dai-yu only heard the blurred outline of this question.
She replied I want to ask Bao-yu something.
Nightingale could not fathom what was going on, and could only try to guide her on her way to Grandmother Jias apartment.
When they came to the entrance, Dai-yu seemed to feel clearer in mind.
She turned, saw Nightingale supporting her, stopped for a moment, and asked What are you doing here?
I went to fetch your handkerchief, replied Nightingale, smiling anxiously.
I saw you over by the bridge and hurried across.
I asked you where you were going, but you took no notice.
Oh!
said Dai-yu with a smile.
I thought you had come to see Bao-yu.
What else did we come here for?
Nightingale could see that her mind was utterly confused.
She guessed that it was something that the maid had said in the garden, and only nodded with a faint smile in reply to Dai-yus question.
But to herself she was trying to imagine what sort of an encounter this was going to be, between the young master who had already lost his wits, and her young mistress who was now herself a little touched.
Despite her apprehensions, she dared not prevent the meeting, and helped Dai-yu into the room.
The funny thing was that Dai-yu now seemed to have recovered her strength.
She did not wait for Nightingale but raised the portiere herself, and walked into the room.
It was very quiet inside.
Grandmother Jia had retired for her afternoon nap.
Some of the maids had sneaked off to play, some were having forty winks themselves and others had gone to wait on Grandmother Jia in her bedroom.
It was Aroma who came out to see who was there, when she heard the swish of the portiere.
Seeing that it was Dai-yu, she greeted her politely Please come in and sit down, Miss.
Is Master Bao at home?
asked Dai-yu with a smile.
Aroma did not know that anything was amiss, and was about to answer, when she saw Nightingale make an urgent movement with her lip from behind Dai-yus back, pointing to her mistress and making a warning gesture with her hand.
Aroma had no idea what she meant and dared not ask.
Undeterred, Dai-yu walked on into Baoyus room.
He was sitting up in bed, and when she came in made no move to get up or welcome her, but remained where he was, staring at her and giving a series of silly laughs.
Dai-yu sat down uninvited, and she too began to smile and stare back at Bao-yu.
There were no greetings exchanged, no courtesies, in fact no words of any kind.
They just sat there staring into each others faces and smiling like a pair of half-wits.
Aroma stood watching, completely at a loss.
Suddenly Dai-yu said Bao-yu, why are you sick?
Bao-yu laughed.
Im sick because of Miss Lin.
Aroma and Nightingale grew pale with fright.
They tried t6 change the subject, but their efforts only met with silence and more senseless smiles.
By now it was clear to Aroma that Dai-yus mind was as disturbed as Bao-yus.
Miss Lin has only just recovered from her illness, she whispered to Nightingale.
Ill ask Ripple to help you take her back.
She should go home and lie down.
Turning to Ripple, she said Go with Nightingale and accompany Miss Lin home.
And no stupid chattering on the way, mind.
Ripple smiled, and without a word came over to help Nightingale.
The two of them began to help Dai-yu to her feet.
Dai-yu stood up at once, unassisted, still staring fixedly at Bao-yu, smiling and nodding her head.
Come on, Miss!
urged Nightingale.
Its time to go home and rest.
Of course!
exclaimed Dai-yu.
Its time!
She turned to go.
Still smiling and refusing any assistance.
from the maids, she strode out at twice her normal speed.
Ripple and Nightingale hurried after her.
On leaving Grandmother Jias apartment, Dai-yu kept on walking, in quite the wrong direction.
Nightingale hurried up to her and took her by the hand.
This is the way, Miss.
Still smiling, Dai-yu allowed herself to be led, and followed Nightingale towards the Naiads House.
When they were nearly there, Nightingale exclaimed Lord Buddha be praised!
Home at last!
She had no sooner uttered these words when she saw Dai-yu stumble forwards onto the ground, and give a loud cry.
A stream of blood came gushing from her mouth.
To learn if she survived this crisis, please read the next chapter.
-576 39
