CHAPTER 57-64 The waiting maid Tzu Chuan slyly tests Pao-yU,'s feelings and upsets his mental balance by hinting at a parting.
A kindly aunt pacifies a lovelorn maiden with gentle words.
ONE day in the spring Pao-yU, went over to the bamboo hermitage to inquire after Tai-yU's health, but Tai-yU was just having her midday nap.
Loath to disturb her, he went out instead to the waiting maid Tzu Chuan, who was sitting in the open pleasure veranda in front of the house doing some needlework.
"How is your little mistress?
Is her cough better?"
he asked.
"Yes, thank you, it is a bit better.” "A-mi-to-fo!
It's a relief to hear that."
"Since when do you invoke Buddha?
That is something new to me!"
"Ah, well, in distress one clings to the doctor."
He remarked that she was wearing only a thin black silk skirt and a dark green satin vest over it.
"Do you not find that attire too light for this between-seasons weather?"
he asked, stroking her with his hand.
"You will catch cold sitting here exposed to a draft."
"Don't do that!"
she said, angrily recoiling.
"Now, understand once for all: when we talk together there must be no more of this fondling.
You are not a little boy any longer.
What will people think if they see you?
They will pass remarks about your behavior behind your back and lose respect for you.
Our young lady has strictly forbidden us to go on with any fondling.
Do you not notice how reserved she is with you herself?"
And getting up, she gathered her needlework together and went into the house.
He looked after her as utterly dumfounded as if a pail of cold water had been thrown over him.
Then he crept off and sat down on a piece of rock on the way, overwhelmed by a thousand sorrowful thoughts.
So great was his despondency that his eyes filled with tears.
He had been sitting there lost in thought for the time that it would take to eat a moderate meal when the waiting maid Snowgoose came by.
As she saw him sitting there so forlorn on the rock under the peach tree, with his face propped on his hand, staring absently into space, she stood and looked at him and said with a smile: "What are you doing here, all alone and forlorn?
Is it not too cold for you, sitting on that stone?"
"What is it?
What do you want with me?"
he asked, starting up in alarm.
"You're a girl too, aren't you, So you also have no doubt been forbidden to have anything to do with me.
What would people say if they saw us together?
Away with you at once!"
Snowgoose turned away perplexed and went into the house.
The young lady must have been 2 reprimanding him again, she said to herself.
"Here is the ginseng which Madame Cheng sends the young lady," she said to Tzu Chuan.
"The young lady is still asleep?
Who, then, has just been upsetting the little master so much that he's sitting outside there now, crying his eyes out?"
"Where is he sitting?"
"On a stone under the peach tree behind the honeysuckle arbor."
Tzu Chuan promptly laid aside her needlework and hurried out.
She could scarcely keep from laughing out loud when she saw the poor boy sitting on his rock.
"My word, you have chosen a nice cool spot to sit down and rest in !
Let us hope you don't catch cold from it!
How on earth could you be so touchy over the two well-meant words | said to you just now?"
"| touchy?
| am nothing of the kind!
You were quite right.
But | was only saying to myself, the others may come to think as you do, until in the end no one will be left to speak to me any more; and that thought naturally was painful to me," he replied with a sorrowful smile.
She sat down close beside him.
"Why do you come up so near me since you bolted off just now when | came too near you?"
he asked.
"Ah, do drop that and let us forget it!
What | wanted to ask you was this: Sometime recently you began talking to my little mistress about swallows' nests, and you were interrupted just as you had begun by the secondary wife Chao's coming in.
| would very much like to know what more you wanted to say about the swallows' nests."
"Oh, nothing much.
| had told my grandmother that your little mistress required some swallows’ nests every day as medicine; for Pao-ch'ai is also only a guest here and cannot keep on providing her with a sufficient amount.
As far as | know, Grandmother conveyed my wish to Hsi-feng.
That is what | was going to say to your little mistress the other day when | was interrupted."
"So she owes it to your kind intervention that she now receives an ounce of swallows' nests every day from the kitchen?
She could not make out.
why the old Tai tai had suddenly become so attentive to her."
"Well, if she's good and eats her portion every day, let us hope that in two or three years she will be quite healthy,” said Pao-yu,.
"But the question is: Will she have enough money to continue the cure when she goes home next year?” remarked Tzu Chuan.
"Home?
Whom are you talking about?"
he asked in alarm.
"Miss Tai-yU, of course; for she is going back to h?r own town of Suchow next year."
"Oh, come!
You are talking nonsense.
Her parents are both dead and that is just why we have taken her in here.
What would she do in Suchow?"
"Oh, don't imagine that there are no other distinguished houses besides your Chia clan!"
retorted Tzu Chuan cheekily.
"Certainly the old Tai tai did take in the orphan at the time in order to give her a substitute for her parental home.
But now the young lady is grown up and marriageable.
Therefore it is only proper that she should go back to her own family.
Her parents are dead, but she has got other relatives.
Even if they are poor, they are nevertheless members of a highly respectable clan in which the fragrance of a noble culture has been passed down for generations, and these people would expose themselves to mockery and contempt if they allowed their own relative to continue to eat at a strange table.
In short, next spring or at the latest next autumn Miss Tai-yu will leave this house.
And if they do not send her away from here of their own accord, well, then the Ling family will come and take her away.
One evening recently the young lady gave me instructions to ask back from you all the little gifts and souvenirs which she has given to you in the course of the years.
And she will likewise send back to you one of these days all the gifts and souvenirs which she has received from you."
Pao-yu, felt as if a thunderbolt had struck him right on the top of his head.
He was unable to utter a word.
Tzu Chuan was just about to continue when Brigh'L C!oud came along.
She was looking for him.
"| had a message to give him from my young lady.
He does not seem to have quite grasped it yet.
Take him away!"
declared Tzu Chuan curtly, and left the two alone.
Ch'ing Wen perceived with amazement the distraught, absentminded expression of Pao-yU,'s face, the flush on his cheeks, the drops of sweat on his forehead.
She took him by the hand and led him back to the Begonia Courtyard.
"What has happened?"
asked She Yue, horrified.
"He's got a feverish cold.
Apparently he was hot and got into a cold draft," said Ch'ing Wen with a shrug.
If only it were merely that!
But the pupils of his eyes were so strangely fixed, saliva dropped from the corners of his mouth, he seemed completely in a daze, and allowed everything to be done to him let himself be put to bed, then propped up with pillows and given tea, all without showing any movement of his own will.
His waiting maids were utterly dumfounded by the alteration in his whole being, and in their perplexity they called Mother Li, his old nurse, to his bedside.
‘Mother Li observed him attentively, addressed various questions to him without receiving any answer, felt his pulse, and dug her sharp fingernails deeply into his lips and other parts of his 4 body.
But though she pressed so hard that the marks of her nails were deeply impr nted on his skin, he seemed to feel nothing and remained absolutely listless.
Then she raised a loud lament, rocked her head to and fro like one possessed, beat wildly with her fists on the bed and the pillows, and cursed herself for having nursed him in vain in his infancy and devoted her life to him to no purpose.
She Yue, who thought the world of old Li and her opinions, became infected by her outbreak of despair and joined in her lament.
At this point Ch'ing Wen at last spoke up and confessed that Pao-yU,'s condition had nothing to do with catching cold, but that he must have been driven distracted by something which Tzu Chuan had done to him just now in the Bamboo Hermitage.
On hearing this, She Yue dashed off at once to the Bamboo Hermitage to take Tzu Chuan to task.
She found her giving Tai-yu some medicine.
Without salutation or ceremony she flew at Tzu Chuan, crying: "What have you just been saying to our little master?
Go over and look at him and see for yourself what you have done !
See how you can answer for yourself to the old Tai tai!"
With these words she threw herself into the nearest armchair.
Tai-yu was taken aback by her unmannerly, excited behavior, in such strong contrast to her normally precise and polite ways.
"What has happened?"
she asked, full of misgiving.
"Ask that of your Tzu Chuan!"
replied She Yue, weeping.
"I don't know what she has been saying to our poor little master.
At any rate he's completely distracted.
He can neither speak nor see, and his whole body feels cold.
Mother Li has just been prodding him in vain with her fingernails, but he felt nothing; his body seems to have gone dead.
Mother Li has given him up already; she's sitting over there lamenting his end.” When Tai-yU heard this, her agitation was such that she vomited the medicine she had just taken and shook so badly with coughing that it seemed as if her lungs would burst and her entrails come apart.
Her face became a deep crimson, her eyes, suddenly bloodshot, protruded from their sockets, she sat there bent over, and her breathing wus so weak thai she could not even raise her head.
With horror Tzu Chuan perieived the consequences of her thoughtless behavior.
"What did | say, anyway?"
she whimpered.
"I only said a few words to him in joke, and he took them seriously."
She tried to attend to her mistress and began to clap her back, but Tai-yU pushed her away angrily.
"Stop thumping me!
Instead, get me a rope with which to hang myself!"
she gasped laboriously.
"Surely you should know him by now, and understand that in his simplicity he takes everything said in joke for the truth!"
said She Yue reproachtully.
"If your words were not meant seriously, go and clear up the misunderstanding; perhaps that will bring him back to his senses," Tai-yU ordered her maid.
Tzu Chuan set out obediently for the Begonia Courtyard together with She Yue.
Pao-yU,'s mother a: d grandmother had meantime arrived there.
"What did you say to him, you wretched bitch?"
the Ancestress burst out angrily as Tzu Chuan appeared.
Tzu Chuan was just about to stammer some words of self-defense when Pao-yU, perceived her and instantly awoke from his state of trance.
A deep sigh and a mournful "Ah!"
burst from his lips.
Then he broke into sobs.
Everyone breathed a sigh of relief.
"Beg his pardon!"
urged the Ancestress.
She thought that Tzu Chuan had offended Pao-yi, in some way, but to everyone's surprise Pao-yU, took Tzu Chuan affectionately by the hand and drew her closer to him.
"Do not say any more about going away,” he whispered, "but if it must be, let me go with you!"
His words were incomprehensible to the others.
They pressed Tzu Chuan to speak up, and then they learned at last how Tzu Chuan had put Pao-yi, to the test for fun and driven him completely demented by her talk of bidding farewell and returning to Suchow, which of course she did not mean seriously at all.
"So that is all it was?
| was wondering what on earth could have happened," said the Ancestress, melting into tears of relief.
"You are such a clever, sensible girl normally, and you must know that he is a simpleton!
How on earth could you make game of him so irresponsibly?"
she said reproachfully to Tzu Chuan.
At this moment a servant announced: "Mrs. Ling Chih Hsiao is outside and would like to know how the little brother is."
The mention of the name caused a violent change in Pao-yu,.
"How frightful!"
he cried.
"There, her relatives have come already to take her away!
But you must not let them!
Away with them!
Away \vith them!"
he cried in a frenzy of excitement.
Pretending to comply with his wish, the Ancestress gave orders that the wife of the majordomo Ling should be sent away again.
"Do not be uneasy!
The Lings whom you mean are all dead.
Your cousin has not got any relatives left who could take, her away," she said in an effort to pacify him.
,"Yes, but who then are these other Lings?
| do not want anyone of the name of Ling to come near me except my cousin!"
he cried, still trembling with fear.
"You shall have your way.
No other Lings will come near you!"
said the Ancestress, and she gave instructions that the family of the majordomo Ling were not to enter the Park of Delightful Vision in future and were never to be mentioned in Pao-yU,'s presence.
No one 6 dared to laugh at this strange instruction.
Pao-yu,'s glance chanced to fall on the European mechanical ship of gilded tin which was hanging on the wall.
"Look, there's her ship!
It's coming to fetch her!"
he shouted in a new access of feverish hallucination, pointing with his finger at the ship on the wall.
At a sign from the nurse She Yue hurriedly removed the toy from the wall in order to withdraw it from his sight, but he stretched out his hand, made She Yue give it to him, and hid it under the bedclothes.
"Now she can't sail away!"
he said contentedly, at the same time holding Tzu Chuan convulsively fast as if he would never allow her to leave his side again.
At this point Doctor Wang was announced.
Doctor Wang felt Pao-yU,'s pulse, and then, while Tzu Chuan listened conscience-striken, with bent head, treated the company to a long and learned professional diagnosis concerning furring of the tongue, and constipation, and deficiency of the flow of blood to the brain owing to mental excitement, with their accumulated result of mental derangement.
"Enough of that learned stuff!"
interrupted the Ancestress impatiently.
"We others are lay folk and cannot follow your theories.
What we want to know above all is this: Is his condition serious?"
The doctor reassured her and with a courteous smile promised speedy recovery.
"Good !
Then go and write your prescription in the next apartment.
If it is successful you may be assured of an extra fee, and | shall see that my grandson presents it to you personally with a kowtow of thanks.
But if it is unsuccessful, woe betide you!
| will send out my people to pull down the whole school of medicine where you studied!"
threatened the Ancestress laughing.
At the mention of an extra fee the doctor was overjoyed, and made many deep and ceremonious bows and murmurs of pu chan, "too great an honor," even continuing his pu charts long after the Ancestress had come out with her frightful threat a circumstance which naturally evoked hearty laughter among all present.
The medicine prescribed by Doctor Wang effected a real improvement, and the Ancestress, reassured to some degree, was able to leave the sickroom with her ladies.
As Pao-yi, did not permit the waiting maid Tzu Chuan to leave his side, Ho Po was allotted to Tai-yU in her stead for the time being.
And so it happened that that night the three waiting maids, She Yue, Ch'ing Wen, and Tzu Chuan, watched by Pao-yu,'s bedside as well as the nurse Li and several elderly serving women.
He slept, but at times raved wildly in his dreams and cries such as "Has she gone already?"
or "There are her people coming to fetch her away!"
betrayed the fact that even in his sleep he was still with Tai-yu.
Several times during the night the Ancestress asked for 2 reports from the sickroom, and when she heard of his delirious dreams, she ordered that the patient should be given the best cinnamon pills and wonder-working powders in the domestic medicine closet efficacious remedies which had power to drive away evil spirits and purify the choked-up doors of the body and make them free so that good spirits could find entry.
The next day Pao-yu, felt distinctly better and was back in his right Senses once more, but because of his fear that Tzu Chuan might leave him, it pleased him to go on playing the invalid a while longer.
Of course he could not continue indefinitely deceiving those around him by these artful pretenses, and when Little Cloud came to visit him one day and in her merry way mimicked his condition during those critical days by means of all sorts of grimaces and tomfoolery, he forgot his pretense of suffering so far as to sit up in bed and laugh heartily.
He had not thought that his recent condition had been so funny, he said.
That made the household feel fully assured that he must really be well again.
"Why did you put me into such a state of fright recently?"
he asked .Tzu Chuan one day when they were alone.
"Why, | only did it for fun.
How on earth could you have taken it seriously?"
"All the same, what you said did not sound so very unlikely."
"You can be easy in your mind.
Not one of Miss Ling's closer relatives is still alive, and all the distant relatives live far away from Suchow, scattered through the various provinces.
And even if someone should turn up one day to fetch away my little mistress, it is quite certain that the old Tai tai would not let her go !"
"And even if the old Tai tai should be willing to let her go, | would definitely not allow it!"
he added passionately.
“Come now!
Who knows if you will still think the same way in two or three years?
For you are now grown up, and already engaged."
"Engaged?
| didn't know that!"
"Oh, it's said that the old Ancestress intends Miss Precious Harp for you.
For what other reason would she make such a favorite of the young lady?"
"Ha!
Ha!
So | am still taken for a fool?
Yet it seems to me that | am not quite such a fool as you are.
| happen to know that Cousin Precious Harp has already been engaged for a long while past to young Mei, son of Mei, the member of the Han Lin Academy.
So you can't fool me this time !
Do you not know of the solemn vow that | have made to your little mistress?
No!
No!
| am lucky enough to have just recovered from my last fright, and already you want to start trying to hoax me again?
| only wish that | could tear the heart out of my breast here and now and show it to you and to your mistress in order to convince you both how sincerely | mean it.
Then | would die happy.
And when | am dead may | be burned to ashes and go up in smoke, and may the wind carry me in all directions.
That is what | would wish!"
He had said 8 all this with rising excitement; he was gnashing his teeth; his eyes were full of tears.
"Don't get so excited!
| only wanted to put you to the test a bit, | was worried about my little mistress.
True, | have not always belonged to her since | left home, but she has always been so good to me.
That is why | am so very fond of her, and | dread the thought of being parted from her," said Tzu Chuan, holding his mouth shut with one hand and wiping the tears from her eyes with the other.
"You silly little thing!
You're grieving without reason,” he said, now in his turn laughing, trying to calm her.
"Let me confide one thing to you: in life and in death, we three shall stay together!"
Tzu Chuan remained thoughtfully silent.
A serving woman appeared to announce that Chia Huan and nephew Chia Lan were outside and would like to inquire about the health of the little master.
"Oh, let them not trouble about me; | want to go to sleep now.
Send them away again!"
muttered Pao-yU,.
"You would do better to send me away.
It is time | was looking after my little mistress again,” interjected Tzu Chuan.
"You are right, i was thinking of that myself last evening, for | am now quite well.
Go then!"
Tzu Chuan immediately set about packing her bedclothes and other things.
"You have got three hand mirrors," he remarked.
"Would you leave me that one there as a souvenir?
| will always place it beside my pillow when | go to bed and take it with me when | go out."
Tzu Chuan did as he wished; then she took leave of him and of all the other inmates of the Begonia Courtyard, and returned to the Bamboo Hermitage.
All the time that she knew Pao-yiu, to be ill in bed, Tai-yu had suffered with him, and during Tzu Chuan's absence she had shed many a secret tear.
Now, when she saw Tzu Chuan coming back to her and heard her report of Pao-yU,'s recovery, she herself suddenly felt a great deal better and more cheerful.
"He means it really seriously," said Tzu Chuan with a smile to her mistress as they went to bed that night.
"That sudden bad turn he took was solely due to my having let drop a few words about our going away and bidding farewell."
Tai-yU pretended not to have heard her remark.
After a fairly lengthy pause Tzu Chuan continued, as if talking to herself: "Why get restless and want to change when one is so safe and well looked after here?
The chief thing is that you two have known and understood each other from childhood.
Everything else will come right in time."
9 "Will you not go to sleep at last?
Are you So little tired from the last few days that you must go nibbling idly at ants' eggs?"
asked Tai-yU, interrupting her soliloquy: But Tzu Chuan refused to be rebuffed and continued: "Oh, it's not just idle chatter; what | want to say to you comes straight from my heart.
Believe me, | have felt for you all these years, in your loneliness and desolation.
How | wish that the main affair of your life would happen very soon, while the old Tai tai is still alive!
As long as the old Tai tai is in command you have nothing to fear, but once she is dead, who knows?
These aristocratic young people simply are as they are: today they look to the east, tomorrow to the west; they like best to do with not less than ‘three chief rooms and five side-chambers.'
Today they bring home a wife beautiful as a heavenly fairy; after three or five nights they are tired of her, and begin looking out for another, and then they either hate the first wife or else banish the thought of her into the farthest corner of their minds.
When this happens it is a good thing for a young wife to have the backing of an influential crowd of relations.
Therefore | think that it would be a good thing for you if your main affair was settled while the old Tai tai is still in authority here.
You are clever, you will understand what | mean when | advise you to make up your mind now and keep to your decision, bearing in mind the proverb: Ten thousand gold batzes Are more easily won Than a single heart."
"You seem to have gone out of your mind," said Tai-yU, cutting short her flow of talk.
"How on earth can a person change so suddenly, all in a few days?
You have become quite intolerable.
But just you wait!
| will ask the old Tai tai tomorrow to take you away from here."
"Why?
| only meant well by you.
| merely want you to look out for yourself while there is yet time.
Surely there's no harm in that?"
said Tzu Chuan, in laughing self-defense, and soon after fell asleep.
But Tai-yU remained awake for a long time.
In her heart she felt quite differently from what the brusque tone she had just put on would lead one to believe.
She was profoundly moved by the sensible words of her good waiting maid and she had to agree with her in her heart.
She lay awake the whole night, tossing and turning fretfully and weeping silently into the pillow; only as dawn was breaking did she get a little sleep.
She got up next morning so exhausted and underslept that she found it an effort to wash herself, and rinse out her mouth, and eat her swallows' nest cream.
That day Aunt Hsueh was celebrating her birthday.
Tai-yU went over to offer her congratulations and at the same time took her a piece of her own needlework; then she came straight back to her Bamboo Hermitage.
She was quite unable to attend the usual banquet and theatrical performance.
Pao-yU, was also absent from among the birthday guests.
At the festive banquet for the male guests, whicli lasted more than three or four days, nephew Hsueh Kuo did the honors in place of the absent Hsueh Pan.
For a long time past Aunt Hsueh had had an eye on Chou-yen, Princess Shieh's poor niece.
True, the young girl was penniless, one of those who "have only a thorn for a hair-clasp," as the saying goes.
On the other hand, she was graceful of form, and quiet and pleasing in her 10 ways, in fact, she had the making of an ideal wife.
Actually, Aunt Hsueh had been thinking of her for her son Hsueh Pan, but then she said to herself that the young girl was really too good for that scoundrel and wastrel and would only suffer misery if married to him; so she changed her plans and decided to win Chou-yen for her nice young nephew Hsueh Kuo instead.
She first informed Hsi-feng of her plan, and Hsi-feng in her turn confided the matter to the Ancestress.
The Ancestress gave her willing consent and evinced eagerness herself to play the part of the sponsor and go-between who brings the mountains togethf"-.
She sent forthwith ;or Princess Shieh and asked her consent to the project.
The Princess said to herself that a union of her poor niece with the rich family of Hsueh Kuo could not be other than advantageous, and as the suitor, moreover, was a good-looking, well-behaved young man, she consented without any lengthy deliberation.
The Ancestress now sent for Aunt Hsueh to be the third party at the marriage conference.
For the sake of good form, quite a lengthy discussion of pros and cons now developed between Princess Shieh and Aunt Hsueh, with apparent resistance and rejection, and raising of this doubt and that objection until, thanks to the energetic persuasion of the Ancestress, agreement was eventually reached.
The parents of the bride were now informed and called upon to appear.
Sometime previously they had taken refuge in the Yungkuo palace, owing to their poverty.
Could they have wished for anything better than this advantageous union with the well-to-do family of Hsueh?
They were only too willing to give their consent.
The Ancestress was very pleased with her achievement.
"There's another business happily concluded!
All my life | have enjoyed carrying through negotiations of this kind, and now what about my marriage broker's commission?"
she said jokingly to Aunt Hsueh.
"Naturally, the commission has been well earned.
| trust that ten thousand silver pieces will suffice," said Aunt Hsueh, taking up the jest.
"But how would it be if the old Tai tai, having negotiated the marriage, would also do us the honor of giving the wedding feast?"
"No, thank you; | should prefer not to," replied the Ancestress, laughing.
"Let other hands and feet than mine stir themselves this time!"
Thereupon she sent for Princess Chen and instructed her to make all the necessary preparations for a worthy wedding feast, neither too economical nor too luxurious, and to render her a conscientious and detailed account of all the outlay.
During her sojourn in the Yungkuo palace Chou-yen had attached herself most of all to Pao- ch'ai and had found in her a friend as sympathetic as a sister.
True, she lived with her cousin Ying Ch'un but the latter bothered just as little about her poor relation as did her stepmother, Princess Shieh.
She was made to feel quite clearly that she was poor and did not belong to the respected mandarin class as the other young girls in the Park of Delightful Vision did, and she was poorly equipped and often was without even the most necessary things.
She lacked the courage to beg from her cousin or from her proud aunt, Princess Shieh, and at such times of need it was always Pao-ch'ai to whom she turned in her embarrassment and who helped 11 her out secretly with this or that.
One day Pao-ch'ai met Chou-yen by chance in the park.
They were both going in the same direction to visit Tai-yU.
Coming to a narrow pathway, Pao-ch’'ai lei the other step in front, and so she noticed what very thin clothing she wore.
"Why do you not dress more warmly in this cold early spring weather?"
she asked her.
Chou-yen bent her head, embarrassed, and did not answer.
"Your pocket money has run short again, | suppose?"
she asked, smiling.
"Yes, | know, Cousin Hsi-feng has taken to pinching and reckoning of late."
Chou-yen nodded eager agreement.
"| have to give half of my meager two taels a month to my parents at Aunt Shieh's wish.
Then there are the little gifts which | have to give, to serving women and waiting maids to induce them to condescend to serve me at all and not overlook me completely.
So what is .there left with which to buy things?"
she complained.
"Of course my pocket money always runs out right at the beginning of the month.
And the fact is that | have taken all my warm lined clothing secretly to a pawnshop and pawned it."
"So | thought.
Well, | shall have a talk with Mother.
And meantime, will you turn back and send me your pawn ticket as quickly as possible, and | will have it redeemed secretly, and you will have your warm things back by this evening.
You could easily catch a bad cold by running about so lightly dressed.
Where is your pawnshop, by the way?"
"It is on the main road west of the Drum Tower, and is called the Hall of Enduring Weil-Being, or something of the kind."
"Oh, indeed?
Then the money will at least remain, in the family.
The employees in the pawnshop will think that if their employers do not come to them in person, at least they honor them with their clothes."
Chou-yen flushed, with embarrassment.
So she had gone to a pawnshop which was run by the Hsueh family, of all people !
When Pao-ch'ai reached the Bamboo Hermitage she found her mother Aunt Hsueh together with Tai-yu.
"How marvellous are the ways of destiny!
Aunt Hsueh has just told me of the engagement of her nephew to Chou-yen.
Who would have thought it would all happen so quickly?"
said Tai- yu to Pao-ch'ai.
"Yes, my child, if the old man in the moon wills it, two people find each other even if they area thousand miles apart," remarked Aunt Hsueh with a smile.
"The old man in the moon secretly seeks out his young people and binds them together with the magic red cord which he winds around their feet.
When that happens, countries and seas and years may lie between them, 12 but his chosen young people must become man and wife in the end.
None of it happens by human will.
And on the other hand, two human beings may live ever so close together, and they may be solemnly destined for each other by parents and relatives, but if the old man in the moon does not knot his red cord, then, in spite of everything, they do not get each other.
Who knows how quickly it may one day happen to you two girls, even if your future husbands are in the Southern Mountains or by the Northern Sea?"
"All the same, a little motherly help could not harm us, perhaps,” said Pao-ch'ai, with a laugh, nestling against her mother's breast.
"Imagine a big girl like her being petted like that!
How lucky she is!"
sighed Tai-yU, smiling sadly.
How happy she would be if she could nestle on a motherly breast, she thought.
And her eyes filled with tears.
"Don't weep, dear child!"
said Aunt Hsueh, moved with pity, flicking her face with a feather duster.
"| can quite understand how sad it makes you to have to look on at the caresses between a mother and daughter.
But believe me, | feel for you no whit less than | do for my own daughter, but | dare not show my feelings openly, there are so many malicious tongues in the house.
No one would understand that one could adopt a defenseless orphan out of pure human sympathy no, it would oe interpreted as currying favor with the old Tai tai; for the old Tai tai also has a special preference for you."
"Oh, if that is the way it is with you, Aunt, may | not look upon you as a mother?"
asked Tai- yu.
"Why not?
If you do not scorn me, | will willingly adopt you," replied Aunt Hsueh affectionately.
"No, that would not do,” interjected Pao-ch'ai, smiling slyly.
"Why would it not do?"
asked Tai-yU, surprised.
"Well, naturally, because of my brother Hsueh Pan.
For after all, he is not yet married.
Why do you think it was that Cousin Chou-yen has been betrothed to Cousin Hsueh Kuo and not to him?"
"Why?
Presumably because he is away or because his horoscope does not agree with Chou- yen’," replied Tai-yU guilelessly.
"No, no, that's not the reason.
Hsueh Pan's bride has already been chosen, and as soon as he comes back from his travels her name will be made known.
Now can you guess why Mother cannot very well adopt you as a daughter?
Just think hard!"
Pao-ch'ai winked gleefully at her mother as she said this, but Tai-yU, who now understood, took her.
jest seriously.
Horrified, she hid her face on Aunt Hsueh's breast, murmuring distractedly: "I won't!
| won't!"
"Don't let her frighten you!
She is only hoaxing you!"
Aunt Hsueh reassured her, embracing her tenderly.
13 "Really, you may believe it!
Mama is going to speak to the old Tai tai tomorrow and ask for your hand.
Why should she waste time looking elsewhere when the right bride is here?"
continued Pao-ch'ai, persisting with her jesting.
"Oh, you're crazy!"
exclaimed Tai-yu, laughing and going for Pao-ch'ai with outspread fingers as if about to claw her.
Aunt Hsueh parted the two young girls, saying to her daughter as she did so: "Enough of this nonsense!
Since | think even Chou-yen too good for y6ur scamp of a brother, how would | ever dream of delivering this delicate and sensitive child tiito his claws?
No !
The old Tai tai said only recently that she intends her grandson Pao-yUt, for your cousin Tai-yU.
And it is best so, too; for Pao-yu, is so full of peculiarities that he must have a wife who knows and understands him thoroughly, and surely only Cousin Tai-yU can do that.
The old Tai tai will on no account give him a strange girl as wife."
Tai-yU had listened with growing tension, making faces at her cousin the while.
Now she flushed up to the roots of her hair.
"Phew!
You deserve a good spanking for enticing your mother to talk about things which should not be mentioned!"
she said to Pao-ch'ai in jest, pretending indignation.
"Oh, if that is Madame's opinion, would she not go one step further and herself put in a word for my little mistress with the old Tai tai?"
interjected Tzu Chuan eagerly, turning to Aunt Hsueh.
"Listen to the girl.
She can hardly wait to see her young lady leave her maiden's quarters!
Probably she wants to marry herself, eh?"
remarked Aunt Hsueh.
Tzu Chuan turned away blushing.
"Kindly do not meddle in matters which do not concern you, you cheeky little creature!"
Tai-yu called after her, with a voice of pretended sternness.
But immediately she herself had to burst out laughing.
"A-mi-to-fo, holy Buddha, what a cussed creature, chai tzu..." she was in the act of continuing.
But she did nol get beyond the chai; the tzu turned into a hefty sneeze, to the amusement of all present.
She was about to finish the sentence she had begun wnen Little Cloud burst in, waving a piece of paper in her hand.
"Can you tell me what this funny document meaps?"
she asked.
"It looks like a bill."
Tai-yU was the first to look at the paper.
She could not make it out either, and then Pao-ch'ai glanced at it.
To her horror she recognized Chou-yen’ pawn ticket, of which she knew already.
She hurriedly snatched it from Little Cloud and tried to hide it.
Aunt Hsueh too had already stolen a glimpse at it.
"It's a pawn ticket," she explained to Little Cloud.
"It must belong to some serving woman.
Where did you find it?
The owner will miss it."
"A pawn ticket?
What may that be?"
asked Little Cloud naively.
14 "What a little noodle!
She doesn't yet know what a pawn ticket is!"
the women and waiting maids who were standing about exclaimed, giggling.
"What is there so funny about that?"
said Aunt Hsueh reprovingly.
"This ignorance is only to her credit.
It shows that she is a real Miss 'Thousand-Gold-Piece,’ a genuinely innocent young girl who knows nothing as yet of this wicked world.
| trust that the other young ladies here are all just the same kind of little noodles."
"Of course, of course,” replied the serving women fervently, as if with one voice.
"After all, Miss Tai-yU didn't know either, so the other young ladies surely cannot know.
Indeed, we feel sure that even our little master, although he has been outside the house so often already, has never seen a pawn ticket either.” Aunt Hsueh then explained briefly to the three young girls the nature and meaning of a pawn ticket.
"Oh, goodness, what funny ideas people come on in order to obtain money!"
cried Tai-yU and Little Cloud, astonished, and their remark induced a further outbreak of giggles and exclamations of "little noodles" among the serving women and waiting maids.
"Where, actually, did you pick up the ticket?"
Aunt Hsueh wanted to know.
Little Cloud was just opening her mouth to answer when Pao-ch'ai forestalled her: "Anyhow, the ticket is expired and invalid long ago.
Lotus just kept it for fun."
Of course her aim was to prevent the truth from coming out and to save Cousin Chou-yen embarrassment.
Aunt Hsueh was satisfied and desisted from further questions; but later, when they were by themselves, Pao- ch'ai began questioning Little Cloud once more.
Little Cloud then confessed that she had just noticed Chou-yen' maid surreptitiously slipping the ticket across to Pao-ch'ai's maid Oriole, and had seen Oriole putting it into a book.
Being curious by nature, she had taken out the ticket unobserved and, as she did not understand what it meant, had brought it in to have its purpose explained.
"So Chou-yen has pawned things?
But why did she have her ticke,J sent over to your maid?"
asked Little Cloud.
Realizing that she could no longer hide the true facts of the case, Pao- ch'ai confided the story to the two cousins.
They were both sorry for Chou-yen and indignant that she was treated so shabbily by her rich aunt the Princess and her cousin Greeting of Spring.
"See if | do not give Cousin Greeting of Spring and her ill-behaved staff a good piece of myjnind," declared Little Cloud angrily.
She would have liked to carry out her intention straight away, but the others succeeded in dissuading her from such hasty action, which would only have brought unpleasantness to herself.
They all agreed to avoid useless lecturing and instead to be nicer to Chou-yen themselves and to find a pretext for getting her away from the unpleasant company of her cousin Greeting of Spring by taking her to live with Pao-ch'ai, Little Cloud, and Lotus in the 15 Jungle Courtyard.
CHAPTER 65 Chia Lien secretly takes the second Miss Yu to wife.
The third Miss Yu aspires to the hand of the Cold Knight.
CIHIA CHING, THE PRINCE HERMIT,.
WAS DEAD.
THE NEWS OF HIS decease reached the Yungkuo and the Ningkuo palaces exactly on Pao-yU,'s birthday, as it happened.
It also chanced that just at that time the Princess Ancestress and the older ladies and all the male seniors of both palaces, among them Prince Chen and his son Chia Yung, were away taking part in the funeral procession to the Imperial burial grounds of a recently deceased Imperial wife.
Princess Chen had to leave the birthday banquet forthwith, remove her jewelry and her festive attire, put on a simple white mourning robe, and hasten out into the mountains in front of the city, to the hermitage of her dead father-in-law, in order to comply with the initial formalities such as viewing the corpse, having it prepared for the bier, and so on.
For she was the only representative of the family at home.
True, she sent express messengers to her absent husband, but it would be several weeks in any case before Prince Chen could be back from the Imperial burial place to help her.
Therefore, she had to resign herself to taking up her quarters for a time in the near-by Temple of the Iron Railings, where the family vaults of the Chia clan were situated and where she had the corpse laid temporarily on a bier; and she had to carry through the prescribed funeral rites alone there, until her husband could come and relieve her and make the final arrangements for the obsequies.
She had taken the majordomo Lai Sheng and his wife with her to help her.
In order not to leave the Ningkuo palace entirely without the supervision of a respected older person, she had induced her stepmother to come and take over the management of the household during her absence.
Her stepmother, the Lady Yu, had brought with her two unmarried daughters.
They were both equal in beauty but far from alike in character, as will be noticed later.
When the older ladies and the male senior members of the Chia clan came home subsequently, having been graciously excused by the Emperor from further attendance at the Imperial burial place, and the various services took place before the bier of the Prince Hermit in the great hall of the Ningkuo palace, the sight of the two beautiful Yu girls inevitably awoke in Chia Lien's breast such burning desire that his mouth literally watered.
For a long time past he had been tiring of his first wife, the more so since Hsi-feng had been ailing frequently of late and was often confined to her sickbed.
Chia Lien found both the Yu girls equally desirable, but since the younger one had given him unmistakably to understand that she did not care for him, he confined his attentions to the elder one, and had the satisfaction of seeing that his feelings were reciprocated.
To be sure, their relations at the beginning were confined to hurried meetings and surreptitious exchanges of glances and words.
For there were always too many observant pairs of eyes in the neighborhood, which effectively prevented him from attaining the goal of his desires.
So he breathed a sigh of relief when at last the obsequies in the house came to an end and the coffin of the Prince Hermit was takenjto the family burial place at the Temple of the Iron Railings.
While the other relatives might return to the town the same day, the funeral rites required that the closer relatives of the deceased, namely, Prince and Princess Chen, their 17 son Chia Yung, and their daughter-in-law, had to remain a full hundred days longer in the family temple, to carry out the further obsequies.
A large proportion of the palace staffs likewise remained out there with them, while at home in the Ningkuo palace the Lady Yu, with her two daughters, took over the running of the household once more.
It is now or never, said Chia Lien to himself, and he resolved to achieve his goal during these hundred days.
Naturally, he required a suitable pretext for approaching his beloved, whom he knew to be less watched and observed than usual in the semideserted Ningkuo palace.
For this reason he rode out quite often to the family temple to keep Prince Chen and his family company for one or two days, and nearly always there was some order of the Prince, or this or that domestic request on the part of the Princess, which offered him the desired excuse of entering the eastern palace on his return and seeing and speaking to the beloved.
One day, when he was once more out at the Temple of the Iron Railings, the Prince's deputy majordomo, Yu Lu, called to discuss some business with his master.
A balance of six hundred ounces of silver was still owing for the white funeral cloth and the green smocks for the coffin bearers, and the two cloth merchants had called yesterday to complain and demand payment, he reported.
"Well, just get the money from the household cash.
Why bother me about it and make this unnecessary journey here?"
said the Prince.
"The bursar could not pay me the sum.
The cash has been exhausted, owing to the many heavy expenses of the recent weeks of mourning.
The ready money available is earmarked for covering the expenses of the last hundred days of mourning here in the Temple of the Iron Railings.
That is why | have come for your instructions."
"Well, just see where else you can get the money from; you are old and wise enough to do that," said the Prince.
"Hm, if it were only a matter of one or two hundred ounces, | would know how to get over the difficulty, but six hundred straight away .
.
.
!
"YuLu answered hesitantly, much embarrassed.
The Prince considered the matter for a while, then he turned to his son, Chia Yung, and said: "Go to your mother and ask her what became of the five hundred ounces which came in recently as a funeral gift from the Chen family of Kiang nan.
As far as | know, the money has not gone into the household cash."
Chia Yung went to the Princess and came back after a while with the message that two of the five hundred ounces were already spent, and the remaining three hundred were in the safekeeping of Mother Yu.
"Very well.
Then you must go to your grandmother, ask her to give you the three hundred, and hand them to Yu Lu to pay his cloth merchants’ bill.
He will rake up the balance himself.
At the same time have a look around and see how things are going at home, whether there is 18 anything that calls for discussion; and see also how your two aunts are, and give them our greetings."
Chia Yung and Yu Lu were just about to take leave when Chia Lien appeared.
"Well, what's the important discussion?"
he asked, and when the Prince informed him, he thought to himself, this is just my chance; | must seize it.
"Why should you go borrowing from outsiders, dear Cousin, when it is a matter of sucha trifle?"
he continued aloud.
"I happen to have quite a large sum lying at home.
| place it at your disposal with pleasure."
"That is splendid!
Would you be so good, then, as to give my son a written order, so that the money can be handed over to him."
i"Hm, | should prefer to do that myself.
Besides, | have been long enough away from home and must think about returning in any case.
| should like to see how Grandmother, and Mother, and my aunts are, and to make sure that everything is in order at home."
And so it came about that Uncle Lien and Nephew Yung set out together, accompanied by a few servants, to ride back to the capital.
On the way the uncle contrived, as if by chance, to lead the conversation on to the subject of Cousin Yu Number Two.
He could not find nearly enough words with which to praise her good qualities and her virtues, her beauty, her good character, and her blameless behavior, and so extravagant were his eulogies that the nephew very soon realized what he was driving at.
"My uncle seems to be very much taken with her," remarked Chia Yung with a smile.
"How would it be if he were to make her his ‘lady of the side-chamber' and if | were to act as go- between?"
"Do you mean that seriously, or are you joking?"
asked Chia Lien, pretending surprise.
"1 am serious, of course."
"That's very friendly of you.
But there are various difficulties.
What would my wife say to it?
And would your grandmother approve?
Moreover, | heard that your second aunt is already engaged."
"That is true.
But since the father of her betrothed, a tenant farmer on the estate named Chang, lost his fortune ten years ago in a lawsuit, the two families have broken off relations.
For a long time past Grandmother and Father have planned to have this engagement cancelled by the payment of a small indemnity in cash, and to seek another suitable husband for my aunt.
The Chang family are poor; they will be very glad to renounce the betrothal for a few ounces of silver.
And | have not the least doubt but that Grandmother and Father will joyfully give their approval to such a distinguished suitor as you.
The only doubtful point is the question of what Hsi-feng would say to it."
This Chia Lien did not kn >w either, and his only answer was a forced smile.
19 "Wait!
I've got an idea!"
exclaimed the nephew, after thinking for a while.
"We shall certainly require some courage, and you must not shrink from spending a bit of money too, if the matter is to succeed."
"Out with it!"
"My plan is simply to hoodwink Hsi-feng.
She must not hear anything of your intention.
| will carry through the whole business with the utmost discretion with my father and my grandmother.
As soon as they have consented, | shall buy a little house for you close behind our palace.
| shall furnish it nicely and cozily as a love nest for you, and hire two or three discreet and reticent serving women.
Then one happy day | will conduct my aunt there secretly and unseen by either spirit or mortal, and install her in your love nest as your secondary wife.
You will then live alternately with Hsi-feng and with your new wife for the future.
If Hsi-feng gets to know of it in the course of time and makes a row, why, you need only say that you were moved to act as you had done by the very understandable wish to beget the son and heir that your principal wife had failed to give you.
Faced with the accomplished fact, with the rice in the pot already cooked, Hsi-feng will no doubt put up with it.
And then, in the end, you will ask the blessing of the old Tai tai."
In his infatuated state Chia Lien found the plan splendid.
It did not even occur to him that according to traditional observance it was improper for him to think of marriage in this mourning period.
Still less did he reckon with the sternness of his father, Prince Shieh, and the jealousy of his wife, Hsi-feng.
Nor did he guess, moreover, that his cunr'iag nephew had his own advantage in mind in making this suggestion.
For the nephew too was madly enamored of his beautiful aunt, but within the parental home he could not well make overtures to her.
In the solitary love nest behind the palace, however, he would have a splendid occasion to do so.
He would only have to watch his chance when Uncle Lien was not there, and this opportunity would offer itself often enough.
But none of these things crossed the mind of the infatuated urtcle.
"You are really a bright boy, dear nephew ! "
said the latter, beaming with joy.
"By way of thanks | shall give you a present of two pretty waiting maids."
Meanwhile they had reached the main gateway of the Ningkuo palace, and here they parted with mutual promises of the strictest secrecy.
The nephew was considerate enough to allow the uncle to go alone to Grandmother Yu in order that Chia Lien would have the field to himself later when he would meet Aunt Number Two.
Meantime he himself turned in to the western palace to greet the old Ancestress.
In front of the great hall Chia Lien dismissed his retinue of servants, dismounted from his horse, and went alone and unannounced to the ladies' quarters.
As a near relative who was on close terms of friendship with Prince Chen, the master of the house, he could take this liberty without causing unpleasant surprise among the staff.
On walking unannounced into the living room of the ladies Yu, he had the good luck to find Miss Yu Number Two alone.
She 20 was reclining on the couch busy with her needlework, in the company of two waiting maids.
Chia Lien walked up to her eagerly and saluted her politely.
Miss Yu, suppressing a smile, rose to return his greeting, and invited him to sit down by her side.
Chia Lien gave her to understand at once how happy he considered himself to see her again.
"But where are your mother and sister?"
he inquired.
"They are in the back, in the storerooms,” she replied.
Meanwhile the two maids had disappeared to get tea.
Chia Lien availed of this opportunity to gaze deeply into the eyes of the beautiful cousin, whereupon she bent her head a little, but continued to smile ingenuously.
He did not wish to push his advances too directly and crudely.
His glance fell on her hand, which was toying with the ornamental silken ribbon of a handbag of lotus-leaf shape.
"Oh, | have left my betel-nut bag out at the temple," he said, feeling around his belt.
"Perhaps my good cousin would give me a few nuts out of her bag?"
"| happen to have betel nuts in my bag, but it is my custom to eat them myself and not to share them with other people,” she replied.
He sidled closer up to her and reached for her bag, to help himself to some.
Fearing the maids might surprise her in this equivocal situation, she hurriedly flung him the bag.
He caught it deftly, took out a nut, and put it in his mouth.
Then he tried to push the bag back onto her lap.
Just at that moment the two waiting maids came in with the tea things, so he hid it for the time being in his sleeve pocket.
While he was drinking his tea he managed quietly to unfasten a dragon-shaped clasp of jade from his belt and to knot the ribbon of her bag around it.
Then, when the maids were not looking, he threw the bag over to her unobserved.
She pretended not to notice.
After a while the jingling of the bead curtains was heard and in came Mother Yu with daughter Number Three and two little waiting maids.
Chia Lien hurriedly gave his fair neighbor to understand by his glances that she was to hide her bag, but she took no notice of him.
It was now high time for him to stand up and salute Aunt Yu and Cousin Three.
Then, when they were all seated again, and he could steal a glance at Cousin Two, he noticed that her bag was still there, but its silken ribbon had disappeared together with his dragon clasp.
She herself looked as gay and unconcerned as if nothing had happened.
So now he was reassured.
They talked about all sorts of things, then he brought forward the business reason of his visit, and had the three hundred ounces of silver handed to him.
At this point Nephew Chia Yung appeared on the scene.
"The old Governor would like to speak to you," he said, winking gleefully at his uncle.
Chia 21 Lien was about to take leave in haste when he heard his cheeky nephew turning to the Lady Yu and saying: "Now, what do you think, Grandmother?
Wouldn't this uncle here be just the right man for Aunt Two?
Hasn't he got all the qualities height, figure, good appearance, and so on which Father said recently he would require of her future husband?"
Saying this, he pointed his finger quite unconcernedly at his Uncle Chia Lien and made cheeky faces at his Aunt Two.
Taking the part of her sister, who was visibly embarrassed, Aunt Three opened her mouth and began scolding, half in joke and half in earnest: "What an impertinent little monkey!
If Mother had not happened to speak of this herself already, | would give him a good hiding!"
But the little monkey had already slipped giggling out the door.
Immediately afterwards his uncle too took his leave, all smiles.
That same day Chia Yung returned to the Temple of the Iron Railings and, after having made his business report to his father, presented Uncle Chia Lien's marriage proposal and strongly advocated the suggested union between his uncle and his aunt.
Prince Chen considered the matter, then he said with a smile: "It seems all right to me.
But is the girl herself willing?
Go back to the city tomorrow and make sure on this point!"
He then visited his wife and asked her opinion.
At first Princess Chen was decidedly against the plan, which seemed to her a rather dubious one.
That this marriage should take place during the mourning period, that a secondary wife should be taken without the knowledge and consent of the principal wife these circumstances constituted breaches of the Rites, and were contrary to all conceptions of correctness and good form.
But as she was used to assent to everything which the Prince had once taken into his head, she gave way in the end.
Moreover, this Miss Yu was not her blood sister but only a stepsister; she therefore did not have to be too scrupulous about taking responsibility for the possible unpleasant consequences of this incorrectly effected union.
Accordingly, early next morning Chia Yung hastened back to the Ningkuo palace at his father's request to obtain the consent of the ladies Yu.
He had himself announced to Grandmother Yu and, when admitted to her presence, informed her of the Prince's wish, and with much emphasis and many flowery phrases, put forward all possible points in favor of the match what a fine life Aunt Two would have with Chia Lien, who would make her his principal wife as a matter of course when Hsi-feng would die an event which was to be expected sooner or later; and that the Prince would defray all the costs of the wedding and provide a handsome home and fine furniture, and would also see that she, Grandmother, hada carefree old age; and he would help, moreover, to obtain a good match for Aunt Three.
He held forth on all these things and with such eloquence that Mother Yu was completely won over.
The business was to cost nothing, and besides, Chia Lien was a fine-looking, fashionable young man.
It would be madness to refuse 22 such an advantageous offer.
Grandmother Yu consulted for a short time with her daughter, and that same day Chia Yung was able to bring his father the desired word of consent.
Chia Lien was now summoned to the family temple, and informed of the approval of the other side.
He was overjoyed, and his gratitude towards his friendly helpers, Prince Chen and his son, knew no bounds.
Wedding garments and lingerie were bought in haste and all the other wedding preparations were made.
Two li from the back walls of the princely abode, in the quiet little Lane of the Flowering Branch, a suitable "love nest" was acquired.
It was a small country villa of twenty rooms.
Little Pao, who, after his wife had killed herself, had married the merry widow of that crazy fellow the cook To who had died of drink, was engaged as a servant.
He had left the palace service some time previously.
Chia Lien could not have hit upon a better choice, for Little Pao had received a hundred taels in hush money from him some time previously, as well as the pretty Widow To, in compensation for the loss of his wife, and he was therefore deeply indebted to him.
Moreover, his wife's former tender relations with Chia Lien were likewise a bond between herself and their new master.
Therefore, Chia Lien would be able to rely upon his servants for true devotion and reticence.
And old Chang, the impoverished father of the original fiance of Miss Yu Number Two, was compensated with a sum of twenty taels, for which he signed the required deed of relinquishment.
The third day of the new month was picked out in the calendar as a suitable day for the wedding.
Mother Yu and Daughter Three had inspected the new home the previous day and found it in the best possible order.
And now the bride was fetched in an ordinary litter, unseen by either spirit or mortal, in the fifth hour of the morning of the third, and taken to the love nest in the Lane of the Flowering Branch.
A little time later Chia Lien arrived, equally unobtrusively, seated in a small sedan chair and dressed in his everyday attire, paid his respects to heaven and earth and to his Aunt Yu, who was present, burned incense and little paper horses, and drank with his new bride from the same wedding beaker in a festively illuminated bridal chamber, then later revelled with her in that unrestrained manner of phoenix couples which is all too well known.
The news of this secret marriage did not penetrate beyond the circle of the few initiated persons.
From now onwards Chia Lien covered his fairly frequent absences with the pretext to Hsi-feng that his presence was required in the Ningkuo palace,.
and in view of his close friendship with Prince Chen the unsuspecting Hsi-feng believed him.
Everything went as he had desired.
Chia Lien allowed his new wife fifteen taels per month and, when he himself could not be with her, permitted her to take her meals with her mother and sister so that she would not feel too Ibnely.
His intimacy with the new wife was so great that he gradually took away secretly from his home in the Yungkuo palace all the objects of value which he had collected for himself in the course of the years, and gave them into her keeping.
Moreover, he was so rash as to tell her, during the hours they lay together, every conceivable intimate detail about the character and person of his principal wife.
The second Yu was naturally extremely gratified, and in her dreams already saw herself as the successor of Hsi-feng and the future mistress of the western palace.
23 Two months of secret and undisturbed happiness had passed in this way when Prince Chen returned home one evening to the eastern palace from the Temple of the Iron Railings, the hundred days of mourning service there having come to an end.
After his long absence he had a wish to see his two beautiful sisters-in-law that same evening.
Having made sure that Cousin Chia Lien was not there, he set out for the Lane of the Flowering Branch accompanied only by two trusted farmhands.
While he was chatting and drinking punch with Mother Yu and Sister-in-law Three in the lamp- lit living room of the west wing, Sisterin-law Two having withdrawn immediately after greeting him, Chia Lien arrived.
When he heard that his princely cousin was there, he thought his own thoughts, and quietly went straight to his Nai nai, for he wished to leave his cousin undisturbed.
Besides, he felt tired and planned to go to bed early.
Seettled down comfortably, ate his evening meal, and drank to the point of exhilaration.
The Nai nai drank .sturdily with him, and when he saw her sitting in front of him in her red undergarment with her hair loosened and a springlike flush on her cheeks, she seemed to him more beautiful than ever, and he embraced her and said to her flatteringly: "People will keep on talking in the highest terms of my principal wife, but when | compare you with that wicked witch, it seems to me that she is not even worthy to untie your shoes.” "Ah, of what use is one's little bit of beauty, when all is said and done!"
she replied with a sigh.
"What do you mean by that?
| do not understand you,” he said.
"Oh, | was thinking of my sister," she replied, suddenly bursting into tears.
"We two have now been living as man and wife for the past two months.
You know how devoted | am to you, and | Know what you are to me.
But what is to become of my sister?
What is she to do here with us?
That troubles me.
We should put our minds to securing her future too."
"| understand perfectly well.
| myself have already been thinking about that, so please do not worry!"
he said with a reassuring smile.
"You shall see that | am not a jealous, selfish man.
Now, how would it be if your sister were to take Cousin Chen?
Come, let us go straight over and discuss it with him quite openly.
Luckily, they are all there together."
So they went over to the living room in the west wing.
Their unexpected appearance embarrassed the belated visitor and Mother Yu very considerably, but Chia Lien was able tactfully to restore a relaxed atmosphere by a few friendly words.
"After all, we are good friends and cousins and we do not need to stand on ceremony with each other," he said blithely to Cousin Chen.
"Heaven knows how much you have exerted yourself on my behalf, and | owe you an endless debt of gratitude.
Under the circumstances it would be strange indeed if we were to be embarrassed before each other.
You are always welcome here."
And there and then, to show his devoted gratitude, he went on his knees and was about to kowtow, but Cousin Chen raised him to his feet at once.
24 "lam most willingly at your service, dear Cousin.
Please tell me what | can do for you!"
he said.
"Oh, | would only like to drink a glass of wine with you," replied Chia Lien.
He motioned to Little Pao's wife to pour out the wine, then, turning to the third Yu, he continued with a smirk: "Well, how would you like to drink a goblet together with Cousin Chen?
| on my part will raise my glass and drink to your mutual happiness!"
At these words the third Yu became beside herself with rage, and with one leap sprang up on the d:'van.
"Spare me your flowery rigmaroles!
| know what all of you are like in this noble house!"
she shouted at him with the utmost scorn, from her perch.
"We are at your disposal as whores, nothing else !
First you get hold of my sister with your stinking money, and now it is to be my turn!
But that's where you're wrong!
.
.
.
Very well, then, | am willing, and as long as we are treated decently, we shall keep quiet.
But look out if you give us the slightest cause for complaint!
I'll run to your first wife and make a row.
Then we shall see if she really has all the brains and ability she is credited with!
And now let's be merry and drink to our hearts’ content!"
She poured out a full glass for herself, drank it half empty, then poured the other half down Chia Lien's throat.
The two cousins were speechless at her behavior.
They were quite well accustomed, to be sure, to the loose tone of low haunts, but to hear such unrestrained language from a maidenly mouth that was something quite new to them.
The third Yu did not let their eVnbarrassment deter her, however, and continued brazenly with her loose talk and her strumpet's airs.
“Come!
Don't be timid!
Help me to amuse the gentlemen!"
she pressed her sister, who had remained shyly in the background.
"After all, we are all one family here together, and it's so nice being all to ourselves.
Why shouldn't we have a jolly time?
Hoop-la!
Let's be merry!"
Prince Chen cursed his thoughtlessness in starting it all.
This wild girl was positively frightening.
He tried to reach the door, but the third Yu would not let him escape.
In order to show that she meant the word "merry" seriously, she took off her jewelry, loosened her hair, and without the least embarrassment stripped off her upper clothing.
Then she sat down dressed only in her red undergarment.
Even that she had half opened, so that only a thin pale green chemise covering the snowwhite twin waves of her breast, green knickers, and red slippers were visible.
No, she was certainly not stingy with her fresh charms charms which could not fail to bewilder and infatuate any man's heart.
And she went even farther in the exhibition of her unrestrained temper, keeping the senses of her two male companions in a whirl.
She was all movement; she did not remain seated long enough to complete one sentence, but kept jumping up, and sitting down, and changing her place continually, so much so that her earrings never stopped swaying like swings.
Between times she poured herself out one glass of drink after another, while her eyes gleamed more 25 and more seductively in the lamplight, like the humid glistening of autumn dew; the flush on her cheeks mounted up to her temples like red waves; the blue-black streaks of her tapered eyebrows, which were shaped and outlined like narrow willow leaves, played in a language more eloquent than words; .the fragrance which streamed from her vermilion lips was like the perfume of sandalwood.
Her well-calculated game bewitched both her brother-in-law" and her cousin To an equal degree, repelling and attracting them at the same time.
Silent and fascinated, they sat, and stared, and listened, transfixed with horror, to the ceaseless flow of audacious jests, and boisterous banter, and ironically malicious taunts, uttered at times in the coarsest jargon of the streets, which leaped from those beautiful, delicate, maidenly lips.
At last the third Yu had had her full fling.
She jumped up, pushed the visitors out the door, bolted it behind them, and lay down to sleep.
From that time on Prince Chen never again ventured unasked into the proximity of that difficult sister-in-law.
But it was all the oftener that she summoned, now himself, now his son, and again Chia Lien to her presence, though only, to be sure, when she felt she had a cause for complaint, or wished to ask for something.
If she had been most exacting already and eager for the latest fashions in clothing and personal adornment, her demands now knew no bounds.
If she was given silver jewelry, she demanded gold; if they loaded her with She Yues, she demanded diamonds.
If a frock did not please her she took a pair of scissors and slit it open and chopped it into bits, regardless of whether it was old or new, cheap cotton or costly satin.
If a dish placed before her at a meal did not please her, she just tipped the whole table over and let all the plates and dishes of food roll over the floor.
When this happened, brother- in-law, cousin, or nephew had to ta’ e turns in coming to the rescue, and procuring immediate help at her imperious orders.
But above all they had to pay, and pay again.
And if they showed unwillingness to serve her she made the most violent scenes, heaped abuse upon them, and threatened to betray and expose them to the redoubtable Hsi-feng.
In short, she knew how to exploit the situation to the fullest advantage, and to make life as difficult as possible for those three male relatives of hers who had entangled themselves in a painful family secret.
The second Yu felt, even more than the others, that this situation was untenable, and she pressed her clandestine husband to try to arrange for an early marriage, which would at last rid the house of the tormentor and restore peace to the love nest in the Lane of the Flowering Branch.
"| have already discussed the matter with Cousin Chen," replied Chia Lien, "but he finds it too difficult to part with your sister.
| have put it to him that she is a succulent but indigestible piece of wild mutton for him; a beautiful but at the same time thorny rose, and that it is best he should give her up; but he could not bring himself to do that.
So what's to be done?"
"We will speak seriously to her tomorrow," suggested the second Yu.
"Just you leave it to me!
Even if she rants and rages, | will make her see reason in the end.” 26 The next day they gave the third Yu and her mother a formal invitation to midday dinner.
"| can very well guess why you have invited me," said the shrewish younger sister today by chance in a softer mood to the elder, with tears in her eyes, thereby forestalling her.
"| expect you will want to reason with me again, but you need not beat about the bush; I'm not a thickhead.
| can see through you and | know what you are aiming at.
You and Mother are comfortably settled here and well looked after, and now you want to have your peace and to pack me off somewhere else.
From your point of view that is certainly right and reasonable, but for me marriage is a solemn decision.
| cannot bind myself for life to the first man who turns up.
Very well, find me the right man whom | can love, and | will follow him as my husband.
But spare me proposals such as Cousin Chen's.
Whatever his money and position, | do not love him and | will not have him."
"Who, then, is the right man for you?
Speak up and teH us!"
urged Chia Lien.
"Then you may leave all the rest to us.
Neither you nor your mother will have any expense or trouble!"
"Ask my sister.
She knows exactly whom | mean," declared the third Yu briefly and resolutely.
"Oh, | can already guess who it is, and | must admit that you have good taste," cried Chia Lien, laughing outright.
"Who is it?
Who is it?"
asked the second Yu, eagerly.
"Why, who else can have got within range of her eyes except Cousin Pao-yU,?"
The third Yu smiled contemptuously.
"Pah!
As if you few cousins were the only men available for us sisters, even if there were a dozen of us!
How absurd!
Fortunately, there's more choice than that in the world for us."
"Well, whom else would you consider?"
she was asked eagerly from three sides at once.
"Let my sister think hard and throw her mind back five years!"
retorted the third Yu.
The conversation was interrupted by the appearance of Chia Lien's trusted servant, Little Hsing, who had come to call him to his father, Prince Shieh, on an urgent matter.
So Chia Lien had to break off the important consultation for the time being and set out on horseback.
He took as escort his servant Little Lung, and left Little Hsing at the disposal of his second wife until his return.
The second Yu availed herself of the opportunity to question Little Hsing about life in the western palace.
How old Madame Hsi-feng was; whether she was really as bad as she was made out to be; the age and character of the Ancestress and the various young girls in the Park of Delightful Vision; these and many other things she wanted to know exactly.
Grinning obsequiously as he sat eating, and drinking tea, Little Hsing gave her the information she desired.
The staff had more respect for Hsi-feng than for Chia Lien; all feared her sharp tongue and the poison of her crooked designs; her husband, on the contrary, was a good- 27 natured fellow; and as for P'ing Erh, Hsi-feng's personal maid, she never dared to oppose her stern mistress openly, but behind her back she put right many wrongs and was generally beloved by the whole staff as a kindhearted protectress.
He told, moreover, how Hsi-feng contrived to hoodwink the old Tai tai continually and keep her in good humor by always ascribing everything favorable to herself and blaming everything unfavorable on others; denying her own mistakes and harrying others for theirs and fanning the flames against them; and how greedy she was for money, which she would like to heap up mountains high if she could, and that apart from the old Tai tai there was no one in the whole house now who could stand her.
With sly calculation Little Hsing came out with these and similar things, which he know would sound sweet in the ears of the future mistress.
"My word, that's a nice way to let your tongue run about your mistress behind her back!
What will you not say about me one day, for | am quite a lot worse than she is?"
said the second Yu, laughing.
Little Hsing promptly fell on his knees before her.
"May | be struck by lightning if | ever carry on against you!"
he protested.
"With you, Nai nai, it is quite different, of course.
We servants would have counted ourselves lucky if our : naster had made a lady like you his first lady from the very beginning.
We would not have had to put up with so many blows and scoldings the whole time, and to live in fear and trembling as we do.
Whether we talk openly or behind your back, we cannot praise and bless your gentleness and kindness of heart highly enough.
We compete eagerly for the honor of being brought out here with our master, for then we have the opportunity of waiting upon you ! "
he flattered her.
"Oh, you crafty Knave!
That's enough now, stand up!
You need not be afraid.
| was only joking just now.
| am not so bad at all.
But tell me, how do you think it would be if | simply went over One day and made the acquaintance of your severe mistress?"
Little Hsing held up his hands in horror.
"| warn you a thousand, ten thousand times!
Do not do that!
Take my advice, Nai nai, and beware of allowing her to set eyes on you!
| warn you, she's a two-faced woman.
She bewitches you with smiles and sweet words, and at the same time she's planning vile things and throwing her snares around your feet to trip you up.
She carries sharp daggers and knives around with her in secret.
Not even your sister, for all her able tongue, would be a match for her, let alone such a noble, fine, gentle-natured lady as you!
No, she is no company for you!"
"| did not have any intimate acquaintance in mind; | meant merely a formal courtesy visit."
"Whether formal or friendly, | warn you, Nai nai!
Do not think that I've been drinking and don't know what I'm saying!
But believe me, she has only to see you, with your charms, which are greater than hers, and your friendly ways, which are more winning than hers, and she will see 28 you as her deadly enemy.
If other people have just an ordinary jugful of the vinegar of jealousy in them, she has a whole barrelful.
My master has only to look once too often at one of her waiting maids, and that is enough excuse for her to berate and punish the poor creature most cruelly in his presence."
"My word, she seems to be a real devil.
Now tell me something about the Widow Chu and the young girls in the Park of Delightful Vision."
"Well, here goes!
The Widow Chu is a nice, good soul, who concerns herself with nothing else but superintending the young ladies' studies and teaching them needlework.
As for our four young daughters of the family, the eldest, Yuan Ch’un, the Imperial wife, is goodness and virtue itself.
The second one, Miss Ying Ch'un is a bit stupid and for this reason goes by the nickname of 'Blockhead."
The third, Miss T'an Ch'un has the nickname ‘Rose’ on account of her rosy cheeks and also because, though she's very charming, she can also be terribly prickly.
It's a pity that she is not the child of the good Tai tai Cheng but of the wicked secondary wife Chou.
That's a real case of a phoenix chick being laid by mistake in a raven's nest.
The fourth of the girls, Miss Hsi Ch'un a younger blood sister of Prince Chen, is a very well-behaved, good child.
Besides these, we have two foster daughters in the house, two very unusual young girls.
The one, Miss Tai-yi, is the child of the late Aunt Ling, the other, Miss Pao-chi'ai, is the child of our Aunt Hsueh.
They are both equally beautiful and highly educated.
When we servants catch sight of one of them in the distance, we hold our breath."
"Oh, indeed?
And why is that?"
"For fear that the one, the delicate Miss Tai-yU, might be blown over if we breathed too hard, and that the other, the delicious Miss Pao-ch'ai, might melt away if we breathed too hotly."
Everyone in the room had to burst out laughing at this droll explanation.
But our esteemed readers will want to know at last whom the third Yu really did want for a husband.
Just be patient.
You will learn this in the next chapter.
29
CHAPTER 66-67 A fiery maiden, ashamed of her unrequited passion, takes her life.
The Cold Knight strides with a cold heart through the Gateway of the Great Void.
LITTLE PAO'S WIFE GAVE THE WITTY LITTLE HSING A SLAP AND SAID to him, laughing: "From the way you let all that, truth and invention, run off your loose tongue, anyone would think you had picked it up from young Master Pao-yu, instead of from your master, Mr. Chia Lien."
"What does that young boy Pao-yu, do with himself generally?"
asked the third Yu.
"Oh, it would be better to ask, what does he not do!
Certainly nothing very brilliant,” replied Little Hsing with a meaningful grin.
"He is utterly degenerate and has no interest either in books or in arms.
In the beginning his father, Mr. Cheng, used to take some trouble with his upbringing, but he has given that up long since.
So the boy is left completely to his own devices.
Outwardly he is a very nice-looking, bright lad, and does not look at all as if he is wanting in the top story, but when you have a good look at him you can see that he's a weakwitted fool.
He seems so timid before strangers that he can hardly get out a sentence.
He's a real little sissy of a mother's darling and never feels at ease unless he has a crowd of girls around him to fool about with and to pet and cuddle.
The poor soppy fellow lacks all seriousness and firmness of character.
With us servants, for instance, he's different every time, according to his mood.
If he's in a good humor he jokes with us as if we were his equals and there was no such thing as difference of class.
If he's in a bad humor he retires into his shell and other human beings simply do not exist for him any more.
At such times he doesn't even reprimand us if we behave improperly.
Naturally, in these circumstances it's impossible to have any respect for him."
"You servants are certainly a difficult lot to handle," said the third Yu, smiling.
"When you finally have a really goodhearted and conscientious master or mistress you grumble and are discontented with them."
"It's a pity about him, for he's a nice boy otherwise," sighed the second Yu, compassionately.
"Oh, don't listen to all this servants’ gossip!"
continued the third Yu.
"Why, we have met him once or twice ourselves, and have been able to form our own judgment of him.
There is certainly something effeminate in his nature and behavior, but that is not surprising when a boy grows up only among women and girls.
But to call him weakminded and a fool no, that is quite ridiculous and unjust!
Don't you remember when we met him just recently at the funeral services at the bier of the Prince Hermit?
We girls were all standing together in a group.
Then when the monks filed in and took up their position all round the coffin, Pao-yU, came in and stood right in front of our group.
That was remarked upon unfavorably by everyone.
Had he no eyes in his head, and was it not most inconsiderate to stand so awkwardly right in our way, blocking the view from us, people said.
But afterwards he told us the reason for his strange behavior.
He knew perfectly well what was correct, and he had very good eyes in his head, so he said, but he had deliberately pushed himself in between us and the monks so that we should not be treated too directly to their unsavory odor.
And 30 later, when you asked for a drink of tea and the serving woman began to fill up the bowl for you which he had just drunk out of, he stopped her and ordered her to rinse the bowl with water first.
From these two little incidents, which | observed dispassionately, | could see that he is, in fact, a person of very fine feelings, and that in the presence of young girls he has only eyes and thoughts for us and forgets everything else on our account.
Naturally, outsiders who do not know his nature cannot understand his behavior."
"Hearing you talk that way, it seems to me that you and he are already of one mind,” said the elder Yu gaily.
"How would it be if you and he were to become betrothed?"
Because of the presence of the servant Little Hsing, the third Yu chose to remain silent, and sat with bent head, nibbling melon seeds.
"Yes, he would suit the young lady quite well,” interposed the presumptuous Little Hsing, "but unfortunately he is already disposed of.
It's an open secret, after all, that Miss Ling is his intended.
Of course they're both very young yet, and besides, Miss Ling has been very sickly of late.
But in two or three years the old Tai tai will no doubt open her mouth and settle the matter."
While he was saying this the servant Little Lung came back from the Yungkuo palace.
"Prince Shieh is sending his son Chia Lien on an important mission to Ping an Chow," he reported.
"He will set out in three or four days and will be away for ,about"two weeks.
He therefore asks to be excused for today, as he is occupied with urgent preparations for the journey, and he asks the Nai nai please to go ahead alone with the matter she knows of.
As soon as he comes back he will take it up again."
The two servants, Little Lung and Little Hsing, now withdrew.
The second Yu bolted the hall door behind them and she, her mother, and her sister went early to bed, but before going to sleep she questioned the younger sister persistently until she found out from her the name of the man whom she wanted for her bridegroom.
When Chia Lien made a brief dash over early the next day and wanted to know the name of the third Yu's chosen man as quickly as possible, the second Yu replied with a laugh: "There's no hurry; the man in question is far away now, heaven knows where and for how long.
My sister declares that even if he stays away a year, she will wait for him a year; if it is ten years until he returns, she will wait patiently the ten years, but that if he dies in the meantime she will have her hair cut off and go into a convent; but she will never marry any other man, whatever happens."
"Who, then, is this fellow who has taken her heart so completely?"
asked Chia Lien, impatiently.
"Oh, that is a long story, but | will make it as short as | can.
It be- gan five years ago in Grandmother's house on her birthday.
There was a theatrical performance in celebration of the day.
The performers were not professional actors, but all sons of good families.
Among them was one who played the part of the youthful heroine.
He is said to have fled from the town a long while ago on account of some trouble or other, and to 31 be travelling in distant parts.
His name is Liu Hsiang Lien."
"Oh, so that's the man!
A fine, handsome fellow.
Your sister has good taste and g'ood eyes; one must say that for her.
But he's of a cold, proud nature.
He has no time for ordinary people, but he gets on splendidly with Pao-yu,.
Last year he had a fight with our wild cousin Hsueh Pan, and to save our family from further awkward incidents he simply disappeared from the town immediately afterwards without leaving a trace.
Perhaps one could find out something about his whereabouts through Pao-yu,'s servant, but he is certainly a drifting water plant.
It may well be years before it occurs to him to show his face here again, and your sister may perhaps wait in vain.
She would do much better to put him right out of her mind."
"You seem not to know me yet, brother-in-law," interrupted the third Yu, suddenly coming in from an adjoining room.
"I'm in the habit of saying what | mean.
It is either Mr. Liu or no one, and that's that!
From today on | will devote myself to prayer and fasting and looking after my mother, while | wait for him, even if | have to wait a hundred years.
And if | do not mean this sincerely, may my fate be the fate of this clasp!"
she continued solemnly.
Drawing a jade clasp from her hair, she broke it in two, then disappeared into the adjacent room again.
Chia Lien had to resign himself to her decision.
He tried to find out something about the whereabouts of the Cold Knight through Pao-yu,'s personal servant, Ming Yen, but Ming Yen knew nothing; and his inquiries in the young man's former locality were equally fruitless.
Shortly afterwards Chia Lien set out on his journey to the prefecture of Ping an Chow, after having spent two more nights secretly in the Lane of the Flowering Branch.
He had been three days on the way when a trading caravan came towards him.
As the two parties drew close he perceived to his astonishment that his cousin Hsueh Pan was one of the dozen men on horseback escorting the caravan.
And what astonished him still more \\as to see, riding peacefully by his side, his former enemy, the Cold Knight.
After mutual greetings, both parties turned in to rest in a near-by inm "How comes it that | see you two former tilters and adversaries so peacefully united now?"
asked Chia Lien.
"My caravan was attacked and looted by a band of robbers in the neighborhood of Ping an Chow.
Then just by chance and in the nick of time along came Brother Liu to our rescue with his party.
He put the robbers to flight, recovered the booty from them by force of arms, and saved the lives of myself and my people.
As he scorned my thanks, | offered him blood brotherhood.
And so we have become true confederates and blood brothers forever and have been travelling part of the way together.
But our ways must soon part again.
| am going back to the capital, and he is going two hundred li farther south to visit an aunt of his.
As soon as | have finished my business at home | intend to obtain a bride and a house for him and to persuade him to settle down permanently in the capital."
32 "A bride?
Oh, that is splendid!
| can suggest a suitable party straight away,” interposed Chia Lien eagerly.
And he told of his secret marriage to the second Yu sister and of the younger sister who was still unwed.
He refrained, however, from saying that the third Yu sister had herself chosen the Cold Knight as her husband, and he also prevailed upon his cousin not to breathe a word of the whole story when he got home.
"You should have hit upon that sly plan of yours long ago!
It serves my strait-laced cousin Hsi-feng quite right!"
said Hsueh Pan maliciously; and gave his ready approval to the new marriage plan too.
But the Cold Knight declared: "That is all very well, but | have firmly resolved to marry only a really outstanding beauty.
| set less value upon money and lineage than upon this.
| shall have to make sure on this point before | can agree to your suggestion."
"Oh, you can be quite easy on that score," Chia Lien assured him zealously.
"But what are words?
You must see her for yourself, and then you will be convinced!
It would be hard to find another girl who could compare with her for beauty."
"Very well, | agree; and | shall be in the capital in about two months' time, but | want to visit my aunt first," declared the Cold Knight.
"| accept your word, but you are a restless fellow, a drifting water plant.
Would you not prefer to back up your word in a visible way with some kind of betrothal gift?"
suggested Chia Lien with a smile.
"Do not worry, brother-in-law; you may rely upon my word.
| am not in funds just now, and besides | am travelling.
Where would | get a suitable gift right away?"
replied the Cold Knight.
"Let me procure the gift!"
suggested Hsueh Pan.
"It need not be expensive gold and silver and jewelry straight away.
Any little trifle which you are wearing will do just as well.
Only it is best that it should be a personal souvenir of yourself, for otherwise she may possibly not believe me," insisted Chia Lien.
"Very well, then.
She shall have my twin-blade sword.
It is an old heirloom of my family which | have always treasured faithfully," said the Cold Knight.
They drank a few more glasses together, then broke up and went their opposite ways.
Chia Lien carried out his mission to the Prefect of Ping an Chow and was back again in the capital after two weeks.
His first visit was to the Lane of the Flowering Branch.
Apart from two surreptitious and completely fruitless visits from the princely brother-in-law, nothing of any consequence had happened during his absence.
The three ladies Yu had remained quietly at home behind closed doors and passed the time busy with their needles.
Chia Lien proudly reported his successful meeting with ttie Cold Knight and handed over to the third Yu her betrothal gift, the "duck couple" sword with the twin blades.
She examined her strange betrothal gift more closely.
One single sheath studded with She 33 Yues and jewels concealed two completely identical, coldly glistening, sharp-edged blades.
The symbol yuan, signifying "little drake," was engraved on the one, and the symbol yang, signifying "little duck," on the other.
The third Yu was overjoyed.
She took the twin sword and carried it into her maiden chamber, where she hung it on the wall over her bed, for she wished to have it continually before her eyes so that the sight of it might strengthen and support her until the day when the beloved himself would cpme to lead her to his home.
Chia Lien remained for two days with his Nai nai in the Lane of the Flowering Branch; only then did he go to the western palace to present his report to his father and to greet Hsi-feng.
She had recovered meantime from her long illness and was able to go out again, and to resume her accustomed activities in the household.
Finally he visited Prince Chen and informed him of the successfully concluded betrothal of the third Yu.
The Prince listened to him rather indifferently and unsympathetically.
He was out of humor because of the failure of his own efforts to win the favor of his beautiful sister-in-law.
So he confined himself to putting his hand in his pocket and taking out a few dozen taels as his subscription towards the young lady's dowry, leaving all the rest of the arrangements to his cousin Chia Lien.
In the eighth month the Cold Knight did in fact turn up once more in the capital.
On his first day there he visited Aunt Hsueh and his new friend Hsueh Pan, who was in bed with a severe cold in the head.
Aunt Hsueh no longer bore him any grudge for his past quarrel with her son, and now regarded him only as his friend and rescuer and loaded him with thanks and attentions.
In order to pay off some part of their debt of gratitude, mother and son had undertaken to meet all the ex- penses of the coming marriage out of their own pockets, an arrangement in which the Cold Knight gladly acquiesced.
The next day he paid a visit of friendship to Pao-yu, and wanted to hear more details about Chia Lien's secret marriage to the second Yu, but Pao-yu, too knew only a little about it.
from hearsay through Ming Yen.
"And in any case | should prefer to keep as clear of the delicate matter as possible," said Pao- yu, parrying his questions.
"But tell me about yourself.
| hear that you met Cousin Chia Lien on the way to Ping an Chow and had an important conversation with him.
What was it about, by the way?"
The Cold Knight told of his betrothal to the third Yu, which had been agreed upon on the journey.
"Oh, you are to be congratulated!"
Pao-yU, assured him fervently.
"She is really a ravishing beauty a worthy partner for you."
"Oh, indeed?
If she is as beautiful as all that | cannot understand why a poor fellow like me should fall to her lot.
Besides, | am by no means on intimate terms with her brother-in-law," said the Cold Knight thoughtfully.
The suspicion that a former light-of-love of Prince Chen's was being foisted upon him suddenly crept into his mind.
"It really puzzles me that | was 34 pressed into this engagement in the course of our brief chance meeting on the road.
| cannot imagine a girl like that running after a man.
| cannot help feeling suspicious about the whole thing, and now | am almost sorry that | handed over my sword as a pledge.
| should have preferred to make some inquiries myself first."
"Your doubts are certainly quite unfounded.
First you insist upon getting an outstanding beauty, and now when you have got her you begin to falter.
Take her, and do not hesitate any longer !"
"Are you so sure, then, that she is beautiful?
For it seems to me that you do not appear to know much more than | do about her person and her family."
"She is a stepsister of Princess Chen, whose maiden name was Yu.
During the recent funeral solemnities in the eastern palace | met her and her mother and sister | do not know how many times, so | surely must know."
The Cold Knight stamped his foot angrily.
"Do not talk to me about your eastern palace!"
he cried.
"The only creatures there that are not disreputable are the two marble lions in front of the main gateway.
No!
The whole business seems most shady to me.
| will not go through with it!"
But he immediately repented of his offensive outburst when he noticed the embarrassed flush on his friend's cheeks.
Bowing ceremoniously before him, he hastened to apologize.
"I have let my tongue run away with me, and | deserve death for my bad manners," he said.
"But tell me at least something about her character."
"Oh, please, why do you keep on asking me?
Apparently you are better informed than | am.
Besides, | myself may perhaps be disreputable and untrustworthy?"
"Please do not be resentful.
| forgot myself.” "Very well.
We shall say no more about it!"
The Cold Knight perceived that he would get nothing more out of his offended friend, so he bowed once more briefly and formally and took his leave.
He was determined to cancel the overhasty betrothal, which seemed to him more and more questionable.
He set out straight away to report his decision to Chia Lien, who at this hour was with the second Yu in the Lane of the Flowering Branch.
The unsuspecting Chia Lien received him in the most friendly and familiar manner, and led him straight into the drawing room of the ladies of the house, where ‘he introduced him to his future mother-in-law.
He was not a little surprised at the stiff and formal manner in which ‘his presumptive brother-in-law bowed to Mother Yu, and still more surprised when he heard him addressing her not as "mother-in-law" but as "old aunt," and referring to himself not as "son-in-law" but simply as "the later born 35 one."
But he was dumfounded when during tea the Cold Knight suddenly said without any warning: "Our recent agreement was an overhasty, chance arrangement.
My aunt, whom | visited shortly afterwards, had already chosen my future bride and she wishes me to marry her in the fourth month.
Respect for my aunt demands that | should fall in with her wishes.
In, these circumstances | must reluctantly renounce our agreement and request the return of my pledge.
If it had been any kind of ordinary ornament, | would not insist upon its return; but that sword is precious and sacred to me as a heritage handed down by my fathers and ancestors.
| must therefore reluctantly ask for its return.” Chia Lien could hardly believe his ears when he heard him speaking in this way.
"My brother is mistaken: an agreement is an agreement,!'
he cried, aghast.
"That is just why | insisted upon a betrothal gift so that there would be a visible pledge if you should regret your word.
How would it be if every betrothed man could back out of his betrothal whenever he liked?
No!
What you ask is impossible!"
"| am ready to make any satisfaction that my brother may stipulate, but | must have my sword back," insisted the Cold Knight with a smile.
Chia Lien was about to make some reply, but the Cold Knight stood up and asked him to step outside in order to avoid continuing the dispute in the presence of Mother Yu.
The two were just about to leave the room when the door leading to the adjacent room suddenly opened and the third Yu walked in.
She had been listening to the whole argument from the next apartment.
So she had been waiting and waiting for the beloved, only to hear now that he wished to have nothing to do with her!
Perhaps he had heard an unfavorable report of her in the Yungkuo palace?
Perhaps she had been described to him as a shame-less hussy, unworthy to become his lawful wife?
If she let him go now without further ado, there would probably be a fierce quarrel outside on her account between himself and Chia Lien.
She did not want that.
Suddenly resolved, she tore the double sword down from the wall, drew out the "female" blade, and, hiding it under her right arm, walked into the room, carrying the "male" blade in the sheath.
"Your quarrel is unnecessary; | return my betrothal gift voluntarily," she said in a voice choked with tears, handing the Cold Knight the sheath with the male blade.
At the same time she drew out the hidden female blade and, with a powerful thrust, pressed it into her delicate throat.
The others sprang forward aghast and tried to stop her, but it was already too late.
The petals of the broken peach blossom were already falling in red splashes over the ground; the crumbling nephrite hill a would never rise again !
After the first shock the mother of the dead girl raised a loud lamentation and broke out in bitter curses and revilements of the Cold Knight.
At the same time Chia Lien took hold of him and ordered his servants to bind him with ropes and drag him before the Court, but the second Yu dried her tears in haste and made him desist from his intention.
My sister did what she did of her own free will; the gentleman has exercised neither pressure 36 nor force upon her," she said.
"To bring the matter before the Court would not undo what is done, and would only bring discredit on our house.
Let the gentleman go his way!"
Chia Lien had to admit that she was right, and he let the Cold Knight go.
But the latter remained standing where he was, as if stunned, wiping away the tears which ran slowly down his cheeks.
"What a magnificent, heroic girl!
Who would have thought such a thing could happen?
| curse myself, bringer of woe!"
he murmured to himself, lost in thought.
And he remained there as if rooted to the spot until a coffin was brought and the hapless girl was laid in it.
Then, with his hand on the coffin, he broke into loud lamentations, which continued for some time.
Having thus paid the dead girl her due tribute of reverence, he took his leave and walked slowly away.
Sunk in thought and tortured with self-reproach, he walked on and on, heedless of either road or goal.
Suddenly he heard a gentle sound like the rustling of silken garments and the tinkling of golden bracelets and jade belt ornaments, and lo and behold, there stood the third Yu before him.
In one hand she held his double sword, in the other a parchment scroll, and she said to him in a tone of lamentation: "In the vain folly of my love | waited for you for five years.
Fool that | was, | did not know that your heart was as cold as your glance.
| have had to pay for my foolish passion with my life.
| am now in the service of the Fairy of Fearful Awakening, who reigns in the Realm of the Great Void.
It is my task to register, with my comments, in the archives of unpaid love-debts, notable cases of unhappy love.
| have come to bid you a last farewell, for to see each other again is denied us."
With tears in her eyes, she bowed to him in salutation.
He threw himself upon her and tried to embrace her and hold her fast, but she pushed his hands gently away from her and eluded him.
Thereupon he began to sob loudly, and the sound awoke him, for he had only been dreaming.
When he raised his eyes he saw around him the ancient, crumbling walls of a ruined temple.
By his side sat a man attired in the dirty robe of a Taoist priest.
He was lame in one foot, and was busily engaged catching fleas.
"Who are you, Master, and where are we?"
he asked the peculiarlooking stranger.
"| do not know that myself, and in any case it does not matter; | only know that we have just been having a brief rest," came the strange reply.
Suddenly illuminated with inward light, the Cold Knight shuddered with icy horror, and, drawing his sword, he raised it to his head and cut off his hair.
Then he followed the uncanny stranger, he knew not whither.
37
CHAPTER 68 Hsi-feng cross-examines the servant and so finds out the master's deceits.
The unhappy Yu girl allows herself to be hired into a trap.
THE THIRD Yu WAS COFFINED ON THE VERY DAY OF HER DEATH AND was buried very quietly outside the city walls.
The news of her sudden death was brought to Aunt Hsueh's ears by a waiting maid.
Aunt Hsueh was profoundly grieved and dismayed.
She had been delighted to help arrange the wedding with the third Yu out of gratitude to the Cold Knight for having saved Hsueh Pan's life on the highroad.
She had intended, moreover, to give him a complete house with furniture as a wedding present.
"What do you think of this sad, puzzling occurrence?"
she asked her daughter Pao-ch'ai with a sigh.
"The poor thing was engaged to the Cold Knight, your brother's sworn friend.
And now, shortly before the marriage, she has taken her life!
And her fiance has since disappeared without leaving a trace!"
"That confirms once more the truth of the old saying that human fate is as incalculable as the course of the wind and the form of the clouds.
Between evening and morning our fate can suddenly change for good or for ill.
It was her predetermined destiny," concluded Pao-ch'ai philosophically.
"But what is the use of brooding and complaining?
She is dead and it cannot be helped, and we cannot bring her back again.
Get over it and turn your attention to our own lives and our own affairs !
Brother Hsueh Pan has already been back from the South some weeks and meantime has probably sold the goods he brought back.
It is high time for him to give a feast for his associates, who spent months travelling with him, and shared his hardships and dangers, to celebrate the happy return home.
You should speak to brother Hsueh Pan and urge him to comply at last with this duty, proper to his position."
Mother Hsueh was about to reply when the subject of discussion himself appeared.
He looked quite distraught and cried excitedly to the two women: "Have you heard the sad news yet?
Cousin Yu dead!
Brother Liu disappeared!"
"We have just been speaking about it.
What a sad case!"
sighed Aunt Hsueh.
"They say he has gone off with a strange Taoist monk."
"That makes the story all the more weird.
How on earth could such a sensible young man as that Liu get such a crazy idea?
As he is your friend and is all alone in the world, you must exert yourself for him and have him searched for.
He will scarcely go far with that wretched begging monk.
Presumably he is hiding in some temple in the neighborhood."
"My men and | have already searched for him everywhere inside and outside the town; but there was no trace of him anywhere."
"Good, then you have already satisfied your obligations as a friend.
But do not neglect your own affairs because of all this.
You are bound in gratitude to prepare a worthy feast for your men, who travelled three thousand li and shared all troubles and dangers faithfully with you for four or five months.
They well deserve it."
38 Hsueh Pan agreed with her, and that same day he sent out invitations to a number of his business managers and travelling companions summoning them to a banquet.
When the guests were assembled round the table, one of them called out during the banquet: "Two of our good companions are still missing from the table."
"Who, then?"
they were asked.
"Mr. Chia Lien and our host's sworn friend, the Cold Knight.
Why have they not been invited?"
Hsueh Pan's face darkened and he sighed deeply.
"My cousin set out for Ping an Chow again a short time ago," he said, "and as for my friend Liu, the mere mention of his name gives me pain.
It is a very strange story.
He suddenly renounced the world and disappeared in the company of a stranger, a Taoist priest."
And he related all he knew of the tragic outcome of the engagement of his friend, and of his sudden disappearance.
"How strange!"
they all said, and one of the business managers went on to tell: "A similar case was spoken of recently by the customers in the shop.
The story was of a monk who with three or four sentences bewitched somebody and made him invisible.
| do not know any more details; we were busy serving and had no time to pay attention to the idle gossip of customers."
"Oh, what nonsense!
This is sure to be quite a different kind of case," said another, skeptically.
"A courageous, sensible, strong fellow, used to arms like Mr. Liu, would certainly never allow himself to be bewitched by a wandering monk.
Presumably he only pretended to join him in order to get behind his magic tricks and hocus-pocus.
He will undoubtedly get the upper hand of the swindler in the end."
"That is probably what has happened!"
agreed Hsueh Pan warmly.
"Really, these mountebanks who bluff and dupe people with their tricks should be put down with an iron hand."
"Have you not had a search made for your lost friend?"
they asked him.
"Yes, of course, | have had him searched for everywhere, both inside and outside the city walls; but and you may laugh at this he cannot be traced anywhere," declared Hsueh Pan, becoming despond.ent once more.
The company around the table fell into an embarrassed silence; nothing could be heard but long and short sighs, no one could be merry any more, and after just a few more glasses of wine the party broke up in depressed mood.
A few days afterwards She Yue went to visit Hsi-feng in a free hour to inquire after her health, but she did not stay long.
She thought she perceived a certain uneasiness in the air, she noticed excited, whispering waiting maids and caught something about cross-examinations to which these porters or those servants had been subjected by Hsi-feng.
Therefore she did not want to be in the way.
She had hardly gone when Hsi-feng sent for Little Wang, the gatekeeper of the second gate.
39 "Well, how was it?
What have you heard?"
she asked the waiting maid P'ing Erh before Little Wang arrived.
"The maid who secretly informed me has been eavesdropping just now at the second gate on a conversation between Little Wang and two of the master's servants.
It was about a second Nai nai, who was much more beautiful and much kinder and more friendly than the old Nai nai, by which they meant you.
..
."
Little Wang was announced.
Hsi-feng asked 1 P'ing Erh to be silent and ordered that Little Wang should come in.
He remained standing timidly on the threshold of the antechamber ina respectful attitude, his hands hanging down by his sides.
"Come nearer!
| wish to question you," ordered Hsi-feng, whereupon he advanced to the threshold of the inner chamber.
"What do you know about the person with whom my husband associates outside?"
Little Wang bent one knee.
"The slave performs his service at the second gateway day after day.
How can he know what the master does outside?"
"Naturally, you know about nothing!"
Little Wang went down on both knees.
"Very well, then, | was present by chance just now when Little Hsing and Little Hsi were gossiping at the second gate.
| only told them to be quiet; | understood nothing of what they were talking about.
You should question Little Hsing.
He always accompanies the master when he goe's out."
"Ah, you are just as good for nothing as the other pack!"
cried Hsi-feng angrily.
>'Ydu are all tangled and matted together like creepers.
But do not imagine that you can, deceive me !
Run and bring Little Hsing here!
| shall cross-examine him first, then you shall have another turn!"
"Shih, shift!"
stuttered Little Wang; and, having made a kowtow, he picked himself up quickly and ran out, returning very soon with Little Hsing.
Little Hsing stood timidly hesitant on the outer threshold.
"Come in!"
Hsi-feng ordered him.
"That's nice business you have been up to with your master!
Now, out with the story!"
The severity of her face and voice shattered the air of confidence which he had put on up to now.
In his confusion he could think of nothing better to do than to fall upon his knees and press his forehead to the ground.
"You are not implicated in the case yourself," continued Hsi-feng in a milder tone; "but why did you not notify me at once?
| cannot help reproaching you.
Now, please, out with the whole truth.
Then | will spare you.
But woe betide you if you only come out with empty evasions!
40 Better make sure first that your brain-box is well screwed on!"
Shaking with fear, Little Hsing slid a little nearer, and made another kowtow.
"The slave is not at all aware of what harm he is supposed to have done with the master," he said now, as calmly and boldly as possible.
"Give him a couple of blows!"
ordered Hsi-feng, blazing up in anger.
Little Wang rushed up and was just about to carry out her order when she stopped him.
"No, let him box his own ears!
There will be time enough later on for other hands to belabor this tortoise."
Little Hsing bent to the right and to the left, dealing’ himself, with a swift sweeping movement, a good dozen heavy clouts on the ears, until his mistress called "Stop!"
"Well, what do you know about this new Nai nai, whom your master is said to have picked up in the city?"
Little Hsing pulled off his cap and beat his bare forehead a couple of times on the earthenware tiles of the floor so forcibly that the thuds resounded dully like mountain echoes.
"| beg for mercy and | will certainly not lie again!"
he declared.
"Stand up and speak!"
Little Hsing picked himself up and told what he knew how one day the house steward Yu Lu went out to the Temple of the Iron Railings to Prince Chen for money; how Mr. Chia Lien had accompanied him back to the eastern palace, and how he and Mr. Chia Yung had discussed the two sisters-in-law of Prince Chen on the way and how Mr. Chia Lien had indulged in admiring praise of their superior qualities and virtues; how Mr. Chia Yung had offered his services to procure the second Yu girl as a secondary wife for him.
He had got thus far with his confession when Hsi-feng, almost choking with rage, burst out: "So it's that one!
Anda relative into the bargain!
Such miserable, faceless, tortoise behavior!"
Little Hsing, alarmed, paused in his report, made a hasty kowtow, and then stared resignedly in front of him.
"Get on!
Why do you not talk?"
Hsi-feng urged him.
"But will the MM nai not hurt the slave if he speaks on?"
asked Little Hsing, wanting to be sure first.
"Nonsense!
Go on!"
And Little Hsing continued to relate how his master had entered joyfully into his nephew's plan-.
"How the plan was subsequently carried out is not known to me."
"Of course, a servant cannot know everything that the master does or does not do.
Go on!"
41 "Then, later on Mr. Chia Yung procured and furnished a house for Mr. Chia Lien.
.
.
."
"A house?
Where, then?"
he was again interrupted.
"Behind the eastern palace."
"Aha!
And we noticed nothing of all this!
We must have been simply dead!"
said Hsi-feng, turning a reproachful glance on the waiting maid P'ing Erh.
"Then Prince Chen paid an indemnity to the family Chang; | do not know the exact amount," continued Little Hsing.
"The family Chang?
What, then, has that family got to do with the matter?"
"You must know that the second MM nai..
."
He stopped short and gave himself a resounding box on the ear.
How could he so forget himself as to mention a second Nai nai in the presence of the Nai nai?
This comical act of voluntary self-chastisement made Hsi-feng smile in spite of the seriousness of the situation, and the waiting maids and serving women to the right and to the left quickly put their hands over their mouths and had to laugh too.
"The younger sister of Princess Chen," he corrected himself, "was originally betrothed to a certain Chang Hua of the family of Chang.
The family has recently been in very poor circumstances and was therefore willing to renounce the engagement on payment of an indemnity.
1" "Did you hear that?
See what revelations are coming to light!"
exclaimed Hsi-feng, shaking her head and turning to her attendants.
"And yet this impudent fellow asserted in the beginning that he knew nothing!"
"Mr. Chia Lien had the house newly painted and beautifully papered and furnished, and then he brought home the second Yu."
"Who escorted her?"
"Only Mr. Chia Yung and a few waiting maids and serving women.” "Not Princess Chen?"
"No, she only paid her a visit two days later and brought several presents with her."
"So this is the alleged business which kept him for days on end in the eastern palace!"
hissed Hsi-feng.
"Is anyone else living with that person?"
"Her mother and also, until a short time ago, the younger sister who cut her throat."
"Why, actually, did she do that?"
Little Hsing told of her unhappy love and her betrothal to the Cold Knight, which had been broken off.
42 "He did well to free himself in time from that disreputable crowd!"
said Hsi-feng derisively.
"Anything else?"
"| know nothing more; and every word | have reported is certainly true.
The Nai nai can make inquiries, and if she can convict me of a lie, she may have me beaten to death if she likes!"
"| would have reason enough for that, you ape.
Stand up!"
Little Hsing kowtowed once more, stood up, and slunk out.
He was already on the outer threshold when Hsi-feng called him back.
"You seem in a mighty hurry to be off to your new Nai nai.
You would like to divulge everything to her and earn a reward, wouldn't you?
But you will do nothing of the sort!
From today on you will not stir a step to go to that house but will remain permanently at my disposal.
Is that understood?"
"Shih" promised Little Hsing and withdrew again, to be called back once more.
"Now, you are going to run off and repeat everything to your master, are you not?"
"Your servant will not dare.” "| would not advise you to, if you value your skin.
Off with you!
Clear out!"
Now Little Wang was called in.
Hsi-feng looked at him sharply for a moment, and then she said: "You are a good fellow, Little Wang.
| am pleased with you.
And in future always be sure to tell me when you Lear something outside!
Can | rely on you?
Very well, you may go."
"Now, what do you think of that?
A nice story, is it not?"
she said, turning to P'ing Erh.
P'ing Erh only smiled.
Hsi-feng threw herself on the divan, took a sip of tea, and settled down to think.
Suddenly she raised her brows.
She had thought of a plan; she beckoned P'ing Erh.
"We must act, and at once, before my husband is back from his travels," she said, and began to explain her plan to the waiting maid.
During the next few days the residence of the absent Chia Lien became a hive of activity.
A crowd of builders, carpenters, painters, joiners, and other artisans arrived, and on the instructions of Hsi-feng they put in order the empty eastern wing, consisting of three rooms.
The rooms were fitted with the same kind of wallpaper, carpets, furniture, covers, curtains, and other equipment as the rooms which Hsi-feng herself occupied.
On the day that the work was completed and the workers left the house it was the fourteenth of the ninth month Hsi- feng sent a message to the Ancestress that she intended to visit this and that temple to burn incense and pray on the following day.
The next day she got into her carriage and, accompanied by the waiting maids P'ing Erh and Little Lung, as well as the wife of the porter Little Wang and the wife of the steward Chou Jui, went off, not to the temples named, but to the house of the second Yu in the Lane of the Flowering Branch.
Little Hsing was taken along and had to show the way and announce the 43 visitor.
The second Yu was more than a little surprised when quite suddenly the wife of Little Pao came run- ning in, terribly excited and trembling all over, and announced: "The great Nai nai is coming to visit!"
She pulled herself together at once, however, ran to the door and accompanied her visitor courteously into the reception room, politely laid cushions for her in the place of honor, and had tea served to her.
She excused herself on the plea of her youthfulness for all that had happened.
Everything, she said, had been dpne over her head and through her mother and Princess Chen, and she assured Madame Hsi-feng of how honored and happy she was at the visit, and how eager to hear the instructions of the "elder sister" and to serve her with dutiful respect.
Hsi-feng was dressed completely in white and silver gray, to give the impression that she was mourning for the deceased third Yu, for whom she in fact cared less than nothing.
To the kowtow of submission which the other performed before her she replied with a slight bow, and said: "Purely out of understandable tenderness and care for his health, and also to spare his parents annoyance and trouble, | always warned my husband against spending the night away from home ‘between flowers and beneath willow trees.'
Unfortunately, he has completely misunderstood my well-intended advice.
Now, if it were a question of some dubious person, he would perhaps be right in concealing an attachment from me.
But the fact that he has chosen a highly respectable woman such as you, dear sister, for his 'side- chamber’ makes it a different matter and quite in order.
No one in his senses could blame him for it.
Such things are, after all, customary in other families.
| myself have always actually advised him to such a step; | have even offered him P'ing Erh.
It is indeed my own wish that he should have a little boy and legitimate heir, who would one day be a support and comfort to myself in my old age.
It was quite wrong of him to keep this matter secret from me through quite unfounded fear of my jealousy.
| am neither narrow-minded nor jealous, and call heaven and earth to witness that.
| only heard of the matter just by chance a few days ago.
My husband is away travelling at present, so | cannot speak to him myself.
In order to show you meantime, dear sister, how greatly my husband has misjudged me, | have come to you today to invite you, earnestly and lovingly, to give up your isolation and come ov?r to me.
Let us live together in future and unite in a sisterly way in caring for our husband's health and well-being; we owe this to the strict requirements of good form and propriety.
This living separately is profitable neither to your reputation nor to mine, nor to that of our husband.
How do | stand in the eyes of the servants who as it is detest me because | keep a somewhat strict eye on them?
No, the present situation is untenable.
So do me the favor, dear sister, of moving over to my place!
As regards accommodation, and food, and clothing, and service, you will have exactly the same as | have.
You are such a sensible woman, you will be a valuable and inestimable support to me, and there will be an end once and for all to the servants’ gossip.
44 When our husband comes home and sees us peacefully united he will feel penitent and will realize that he has shamefully misjudged me.
But if you do not wish to move over to me, then | am determined to move over to you, dear sister.
And in this event | hope you will put ina good word for me with our husband, so that he will not tear us.
apart again.
| shall be most glad to do everything for you, to do your hair and prepare your foot bath, and perform every service which you may ask, if only | can be with you."
She had spoken with growing emotion, which was meant to simulate sincere feeling, and she now began actually to sob and weep.
Her emotion seemed so genuine that the second Yu was quite touched and her eyes too filled with tears.
At a sign from her mistress the wife of the steward Chou Jui now had to take out of her cotton bag four pieces of beautiful silk cloth and a pair of gold bangles and of earrings set with She Yues, and pass them to the second Yu as a token of friendship.
The second Yu was now fully convinced that Hsi-feng must be a most kindhearted woman and that everything which Little Hsing had recently told about her wicked character must be slander and servants' gossip.
She gave up her previous reserve, became talkative, opened her heart wide, laid bare her thoughts, and trustfully accepted the invitation to move over to the western palace that very day.
"But what will become of my household here?"
she asked.
"That is very simple.
Your new dwelling is ready and furnished, so we only need to take over your clothing and linen and other personal belongings.
All the furniture can be left here."
The second Yu indicated the few trunks and objects which represented her personal belongings, dressed herself ready to depart, and allowed Hsi-feng to take her by the hand and lead her to the carriage.
On the journey in the carriage Hsi-feng said to her confidentially: “Over here our household rules are rather strict.
So far the old Tai tai knows nothing of this story.
If she now learns that 01 r husband has married secretly in the middle of the mourning period, she will be very angry and probably have him nearly beaten to death in punishment.
Therefore, it is better for me not to present you to the old Tai tai straight away and not to take you into my own home yet, but to put you up in the park for the time being.
You will be well looked after there and quite safe from prying eyes.
In the meantime | will take further measures and carefully prepare the old Tai tai" "Do exactly as you think best!"
replied the second Yu submissively.
As prearranged, the carriage entered the precincts of the western palace, not through the main entrance but unobtrusively through a back gate.
Soon after passing in Hsi-feng dismissed her attendants and smuggled the second Yu through yet another side gate into the Park of Delightful Vision and took her thence, unobserved, to Widow Chu's in the Rice Farm.
She told the widow about the matter and asked her to keep the second Yu with her for a few days.
At the same time she ordered the servants in the park, under the threat of severe punishment, to keep strict silence and to watch the newcomer's every step, and under no circumstances to allow her to leave the park.
Furthermore, she deprived the second Yu of her former servants and gave her instead one of 45 her own maids named Shan, to whom she gave her own special instructions.
Three days later the second Yu wanted to send the waiting maid Shan to Hsi-feng to get some new hair oil.
She met with unexpected resistance.
"Indeed, you have strange ideas!"
said the maid very cheekily.
"Madame Hsi-feng has more important things in her head and cannot trouble about such trifles.
She is on the go the whole day taking orders from the old Tai tai or Princess Shieh or the Tai tai Cheng; then she has to look after all the young ladies in the park, and the many guests and visitors, and finally, she is responsible for all the several hundred servants.
Everyone turns to her; she is besieged on every side with questions and requests.
At a moderate estimate she has tc settle every day One to two dozen big matters and thirty to forty smaller ones.
Thousands go through her hands every day.
How, then, can | trouble her with such trifles?
You must get accustomed to having patience.
Just remember that you did not marry into our house in an open, correct manner; all the more reason, then, to be unobtrusive and quiet!
Be thankful that she has treated you in such a friendly way up to the present, and do not lose her favor by your folly.
Otherwise it may go badly with you!"
There was nothing for the second Yu to do but to put up with the reprimand and be silent.
Gradually the maid Shan began to show all kinds of negligence in her service she served the meals unpunctually, and what she did put on the table either at midday or in the evening usually consisted only of stale leavings.
Two or three times the second Yu ventured a remark, but each time she was so intimidated by offended looks and indignant demeanor that she did not venture another word of complaint and put up with everything.
Hsi-feng herself came over once a week.
On these visits she was outwardly all friendliness and kindness, and loving expressions such as "dear sister" and "good sister" simply flowed from her lips.
"If you have any complaint to make about the service, let me know at once!"
she said.
And she put on an act of lecturing the staff of the Rice Farm, saying that she would see through it and take ruthless measures if they failed in their duty and were negligent in their service behind her back.
The kindhearted Yu was sorry for the servants who were thus rebuked, and whenever she thoughtlessly opened her mouth to complain about this or that, she shut it quickly again, wishing to spare her servants and not to make herself unpopular.
And so everything remained just as it was after these visits of inspection.
\ Meanwhile Hsi-feng was making secret inquiries about the past life of the second Yu through her confidant, the porter Little Wang, and so she learned of the latter's first engagement to young Chang Hua, who was now nineteen years of age and an utter wastrel and loafer.
His parents had cast him off long ago on account of his dissolute way of life; consequently he himself knew nothing as yet about the cancellation of his engagement and the indemnity of twenty taels which Prince Chen had paid to his parents.
46 Now Hsi-feng sent Little Wang secretly to Chang Hua and won him for her little game by a payment of twenty taels.
He was to serve a writ accusing Chia Lien of having enticed away his betrothed and married her in the middle of a period of public and family mourning without the knowledge of his legal wife and of the family elder, after having obliged her by coercion and money to cancel her previous engagement to him, the plaintiff.
Chang Hua had hesitated to make a direct accusation against a member of the powerful Chia clan, whom he did not wish to quarrel with.
It was therefore agreed that Little Wang should take the accusation upon himself as the alleged go-between and instigator.
Fhoenix was less interested in actually carrying through the lawsuit than in exposing the "gang," namely, the chief, culprits of the story her cousin Prince Chen, his wife, and their son Chia Yung and frightening them by the imminent prospect of a public scandal.
Moreover, she intended to step in just at the right moment if the action should take an unfavorable turn.
Chang Hua accordingly appeared one day before the public session of the Court, called attention to himself by the customary cry of "Injustice," and handed in his writ.
In response to the writ the magistrate sent his greencoats next day to the Yungkuo palace to arrest the accused porter Little Wang and hail him before the Court.
Through respect, the greencoats did not enter the lordly mansion themselves, and were about to send a servant to the custodian of the inner gate politely requesting him to come out.
But that was not at all necessary.
Little Wang had reckoned on their coming and was already waiting cheerfully for them in the street in front of the gate.
"No doubt, honored brothers, you have come for me.
Very well, seize me and hold me fast!"
he invited the greencoats peaceably and good-humoredly, for he knew in advance that no harm would come to him.
"But, good elder brother, how can we do it!
We only want you to come with us without any fuss," they invited him just as politely, and escorted him to the Court.
The magistrate showed him the indictment handed in yesterday.
Little Wang read it, kowtowed, and declared: "That is quite correct.
But | myself have nothing to do with it.
Chang Hua has merely drawn me into it, because we have been on unfriendly terms for a long time past.
You will have to arrest other people."
The plaintiff Chang Hua likewise kowtowed and explained: "That is also correct; but | did not dare to take action against the employers, therefore, | named the servant."
"Stupid fellow!
We are standing here in an Imperial Court, before which we are all equal, whether master or servant; so now cite the names!"
replied Little Wang.
Chang Hua now named Chia Yung, the son of Prince Chen, as being really the guilty person.
The magistrate therefore could not do otherwise than issue a Summons against Chia Yung.
The same evening Hsi-feng secretly sent the magistrate three hundred taels to his house with a message requesting him for this and that reason to proceed without consideration against her accused clan and to take a really high hand with them.
She was very anxious so the 47 message ran to give her people a proper scare.
And the magistrate, as a good friend of her uncle, Marshal Wang Tzu Teng, felt obliged to comply with the request which she had backed with such a considerable gift.
Prince Chen and his son were terribly shocked when news came that this obscure individual, Chang Hua, had dragged their honorable name bef6re the magistrate's Court.
Prince Chen foamed at the mouth over the colossal impudence of the fellow.
He had vainly believed that he had silenced the family Chang once for all with the indemnity of twenty taels.
Now he would have to dig deep into his pockets again and quickly produce two hundred nice shining silver pieces to buy the magistrate's favor.
Just as hf and his son were discussing the annoying affair and the counter-measures to be taken, who should appear quite unexpectedly but Cousin Hsi-feng.
The father and son would, have given anything to escape this meeting, but it was too late.
"That's a pretty business you two have been up to with my husband!"
she said, bursting in on them.
While she caught Chia Yung, by the hand, as he murmured an embarrassed temg an, the Prince succeeded an squeezing past her and gaining the exit.
"An urgent business engagement!"
he excused himself with a glib smile.
"But my son will keep you company for the present and see that you get the best things from the kitchen."
In a trice he was out the door and had mounted his horse and gone off.
In the meantime Mother Yu had appeared from the next room.
Seeing the visitor's angry face, she guessed there was trouble brewing.
"You seem to be out of humor.
May one ask.
.
.
?"
she began.
In reply, Hsi-feng spat right into her face.
.
.
"You are welcome to ask!"
she hissed.
"Am | to accept it quietly when you smuggle in your jilted daughter and secretly pawn her off on my husband?
If you had just done it openly and honestly, and in the proper manner with three negotiators and six witnesses.
But no, you did it on the sly, and, what is doubly incorrect, in a time of public and family mourning!
And now we shall have the devil to pay!
A man has appeared and has brought the matter publicly before the Court, just so that everyone will hear what an abominable, narrow-minded, jealous woman | am!
People will point their finger at me and persuade my husband to divorce me!
What have | done to you that you treat me so meanly?
Is the old Tai tai perchance behind it all?
Did she inspire the whole base plan, in order to get rid of me in this way?
Well, it will all come to light in time.
First you will come to the Court with me, and let each of us render an account to the judge, so that the truth may triumph.
And then let us appear before the assembled clan at home and let us each justify herself.
If the clan finds me guilty, very well then, they may write the letter of divorce for me and | will leave the house voluntarily."
‘She began to weep loudly, and to drag Mother Yu by the hand to the door as if she wanted to 48 set out for the Court with her straight away.
Utterly dismayed, Chia Yung got in front of her, threw himself at her feet, performed a kowtow, and begged for mercy.
"May lightning strike you and split you in i?ve, you crazy creature," she roared at him.
"Shame on you, you good-for-nothing, shameless intriguer and disturber of family peace, scorner of laws and rights and .of all order of heaven and of earth!
The spirits of all your ancestors and the shades of your late wife will turn away from you in abhorrence and disgust.
And a creature like you has the impudence to want to harangue me!"
She raised her hand and dealt him blows right and left.
Chia Yung bent down again quickly to make another kowtow.
"Do not excite yourself, Aunt!"
he begged.
"For the sake of the one day in a thousand that | am good, please relent!
Spare your nerves and your gentle hand!
If | deserve blows on the ear, | can deal them myself."
And he gave himself a few powerful slaps.
Then he started to upbraid himself: "May such a thing never happen to me again!
To count up to four and skip the three!
To follow the uncle and to overlook the esteemed aunt, that indeed is no manners!
What, then, has the esteemed aunt done to you, that you should join with others in being so abominable and irresponsible towards her?"
.
The bystanders had difficulty in keeping from laughing aloud when they heard him abusing himself in this way.
But Hsi-feng threw herself on Mother Yu's breast with a pathetic outcry, calling upon heaven and earth.
“Come!
Come with me to the Court!
Otherwise the constable may come and fetch us by force!"
she sobbed.
"And afterwards let us go together to the old Tai tai and have the clan judge us.
| shall bow to their judgment and leave the house at once if the verdict is against me.
| have already fetched your daughter away and lodged her in the park for the time being.
| have, as a matter of fact, furnished a permanent home for her in my own house, where she will want for nothing and fare exactly as | do as regards clothing, food, and service.
But up till now | have not dared to let her be seen by the old Tai tai, as | wished to spare the old lady annoyance and excitement.
But the matter cannot be hushed up any longer.
Now that it has become a public scandal the old Tai tai will have to hear the truth.
It is terrible that she has to experience such a disgrace in her old age!
What has happened to the good name of our family?
It is gone!
And besides, there is all this unnecessary expense!
| have secretly taken five hundred ounces from the funds and passed them to the magistrate in the hope that he will dismiss the case.
It's a pity to lose that good money!
And | do not even know yet if what | did is of any avail.
The magistrate seems to have taken my gift badly, for he has held my messenger and put him in chains.
Oh!
Oh!
What will the illustrious ancestors of our house in their Realm of Shades think of us.
.
.
?"
She again wept aloud and even hit her head against the wall as if she wanted to take her life.
Mother Yu felt crushed and kneaded to noodle dough by .this outbreak of despair.
Her dress was wet with her tears.
Now she in her turn stormed against Chia Yung.
"Ill-behaved 49 creature!"
she cried.
"You have made a fine mess of things, you and your father!
And | had warned you beforehand ..
.
!"
"Well, if you were against it, why did you not open your mouth and say a word to me?"
interjected Hsi-feng.
"Your mouth is not stopped with eggplant apples or constrained by a bit and curb.
| certainly would not have let it come to this public lawsuit and scandal if | had been informed in good time.
You could well refrain from reproaching others, and reproach yourself instead, for your stupidity and your culpable silence!"
Oh, how cleverly she knew how to twist things round, after having herself goaded Chang Hua into bringing an action!
The various secondary wives and serving women and waiting maids who were standing about felt so full of pity for Mother Yu, seeing her so cruelly driveninto a corner, that all together they fell at the feet of the angry Hsi-feng, appealing to her great wisdom and understanding, and implored in chorus for peace and mercy, for she had now trampled on the poor old lady long enough.
True, their entreaties had the effect of making Hsi- feng stop shouting and she put her tousled coiffure in order again; but she was very far from being pacified.
She disdained the tea which was offered to her and threw it straight away on the floor.
She was itching to call Prince Chen to account next.
"Fetch your father here!
| want to ask him a few questions personally," she ordered Chia Yung peremptorily.
"| demand an explanation from him as to whether he considers it to be consistent with the Li the requirements of propriety and good custom for a nephew of the deceased to go off gaily and marry in the middle of the period of mourning for the family elder.
A little instruction can do him no harm and may deter him from giving bad example to you young people in the future."
Chia Yung quickly threw himself on his knees, hit his forehead on the ground, and protested: "My parents have had nothing to do with the whole business.
| alone am guilty.
| was the sole instigator.
The esteemed aunt may chastise the unworthy nephew as much as she wishes and he will bear it in silence!
But let her please spare his parents!
He could not survive it if she does not!
He also trusts and implores that the honored aunt may manage to stop the action.
The stupid unworthy nephew does not feel that he is equal to such a task and depends entirely on the wisdom of the honored aunt."
He accompanied his humble speech with repeated kowtows.
Hsi-feng was pacified to some extent.
She raised him up, and then, sighing and wiping away her \ears, she turned to Mother Yu: "Qp not be angry with me!
In my youth and inexperience | have let myself go somewhat, and offended you greatly, but the painful news had so surprised and dumfounded me!
Forgive me!
And now we .must act wisely and reasonably.
First of all, this unpleasant action must be settled.
You must have a word with Cousin Chen about it without fail.” "Do not worry!
The matter will be arranged by us to your satisfaction," said Mother Yu and Chia Yung as if with one voice.
"The five hundred ounces which you have already spent will, naturally, be made good to you.
On no account must you suffer any further monetary loss in this matter.
It would indeed be irresponsible for us to allow such a thing.
But we have yet 50 another request to make of you.
May we count upon you to set the matter right as far as possible with the old Tai tai and not to put us in too unkindly a light with her?"
"Ha, you are asking a bit too much of me!"
replied Hsi-feng coolly.
"First you do me a grievous wrong, and then you ask me to come forward and plead for you.
Surely, rather a lot to ask!
Now, | am of a very kindhearted nature, and, moreover, | am sincerely happy to have a sister and companion coming to my house; | have not been able to sleep for many nights, so great has been my joyful anticipation.
If only this obscure fellow, this confounded Chang Hua, had not come between us with his lawsuit!
How stupid of Cousin Chen to run away like that!
| wanted to discuss with him some means of getting rid of this mischievous litigant!"
"Do not worry, we shall be able to cope with the fellow all right," Chia Yung assured her zealously.
"That poor devil of a starving wretch will be glad to withdraw his accusation for a small indemnity.
We will see to that.
He will give us no more bother in the future, we can assure you ! "
"That's all right, if only it works!
As long as the money lasts he may perhaps keep his mouth shut, but as soon as he is without a penny again, he will res.
TIC the quarrel.
In the long run it is useless to waste money on him; we shall have no peace from him whatever we do," said Hsi-feng skeptically.
"Well, one could give him the choice of either the money or the woman," said Chia Yung, with a smile.
"If he positively insists on his claim and demands the woman, we shall just oblige him and hand over my second aunt.
| would undertake to persuade my aunt to comply."
"Under no circumstances!"
interrupted Hsi-feng quickly, for she saw that her further plans were being jeopardized.
"| do not wish under any circumstances to be separated from your aunt, my dear new sister.
Would | not lose face if | were to deliver her up again after having once accepted her?
No, no, she shall remain!
And you may go on confidently trying to stop Chang Hua's mouth with money!"
To her secret satisfaction Chia Yung agreed to this.
"Very well, the most important thing is to get rid of this Chang Hua.
And now let us go together and inform the old Tai tai!"
she decided.
"But what am | to tell her?"
asked Mother Yu, quite alarmed.
"Oh, if one is so helpless as that, one should not risk such daring undertakings,” remarked Hsi-feng mockingly.
"But since | am such a good-natured and sympathetic soul, | shall speak for you.
Do not show yourself over there for the present!
| shall present your daughter to the old Tai tai alone first.
| shall tell her more or less that | intended in any case to buy my husband two secondary wives, as | could scarcely count on having any male descendant or on living much longer myself, and that recently | had become convinced of the sterling qualities of your second daughter and had given her the preference as a relation.
In consideration of her rather straitened circumstances and to free her from anxiety 51 about her livelihood, | had decided to depart a little from strict custom and take her into my house even before the end of the hundred days' mourning; and that as soon as the mourning period is over the official wedding ceremony will take place.
There now, that is what | shall say!
| shall thus take any eventual blame on myself.
Are you satisfied?"
Mother Yu and Nephew Chia Yung enthusiastically praised her generosity and wisdom and gave her to understand that the Princess would pay her a special visit of thanks.
"That is all right; | do not want any thanks," said Hsi-feng coolly.
"| shall certainly know for the future what to think of you, young man," she said sharply, pointing her finger at Chia Yung.
"But, Aunt, this one little time you will surely forgive the wicked nephew!"
begged Chia Yung, promptly falling on his knees again.
She threw back her head as if she wanted to overlook him, and turned towards the door.
52
CHAPTER 69-73 Hsi-feng, with cunning and malice, plays the young rival off against the older one.
Driven to desperation, the second Yu kills herself by swallowing gold.
IMMEDIATELY AFTER HER TALK WITH MOTHER Yu, Hsi-feng VISITED .the daughter Yu.
First she frightened her with news of the sudden reappearance of her former betrothed, Chang Hua, and then calmed her by telling of the counter-measures which were being taken, not failing to extol her own services, and to spin a long yarn about how unselfishly she had sacrificed and harried herself and with what discretion she had arranged this and that, and how she had done everything to protect the two families from disgrace and blame.
The second Yu was profuse with her expressions of gratitude and trustfully let herself be taken over to the old Tai tai.
Mother Yu, who had not expected to be permitted to come, joyfully joined the two others.
But she had had to promise to keep modestly in the background and leave the talking to Hsi-feng.
The old Tai tai was engaged in lively conversation with the young ladies from the Park of Delightful Vision when the three visitors appeared with their attendants.
"Whose child is this?"
asked the Ancestress, pointing to the second Yu.
"She seems to be a really pretty and pleasing person."
"Does she please you?
Do look at her closely!"
replied Hsi-feng, smiling; and taking the other by the hand, she drew her forward.
"This lady is our great Ancestress," she said, introducing her.
"Quick, make a kowtow!"
The second Yu threw herself on the ground and duly performed the great ceremonial kowtow of salutation.
Then followed the introduction of the young ladies present.
In the meantime the Ancestress had leisure to inspect the newcomer from head to foot.
"What is your name and how old are you?"
she asked the secon '.
Yu, who had stepped aside a little and shyly bowed her head.
"We have not got as far as that yet.
You must first give your verdict.
Is she prettier than | am?"
interjected Hsi-feng, laughing.
The Ancestress put on her spectacles and ordered Yuan Yang and Ho Po to lead the stranger nearer, so that she might inspect her more thoroughly.
Amidst the suppressed giggles of the others, the waiting maid Ho Po had to take the stranger's hands and hold them close under the eyes of the Ancestress.
After a thorough inspection she took off her glasses again and declared with a roguish smile to Hsi-feng: "Hm.
She is a fine, well-formed child.
She almost seems to me prettier than you."
Hsi-feng curtsied with a smile and delivered the long, carefully prepared speech the main points of which she had already told Mother Yu.
The Ancestress was deeply touched by her noble-mindedness and willingly consented to the newcomer's taking up residence in the palace even before the expiration of the hundred days' mourning period.
The official wedding ceremony would take place after the period of a year required by good form.
53 Hsi-feng thanked her, striking her forehead on the ground, then stood up and asked for two serving women to escort the newcomer to Princess Shieh and the Tai tai Cheng and introduce her to them on behalf of the Ancestress.
The Ancestress gave her permission and so the second Yu was installed, in accordance "with all the rules of good form, as an inmate of the western palace.
And now she was allowed to move over from the park to Hsi-feng's residence and occupy the suite specially furnished for her in the west wing.
It must be mentioned, moreover, that the good Lady Cheng welcomed and approved this change wholeheartedly; for now the position .was clarified and the good name of the beautiful but poor girl, so long left unmarried, would no longer be in danger.
While Hsi-feng thus contrived to give the outward appearance of being selfless and noble- minded, she secretly continued coolly and tena- ciously her game of intrigue against her absent husband and his new wife.
She again sent to Chang Hua and stimulated him by substantial gifts of money to continue the legal proceedings and insist upon getting back his bride.
At the outset Chang Hua had only taken this action under pressure.
Chia Yung, who had a meeting with him later on in the course of the negotiations, maintained that he had previously withdrawn from the engagement; besides, the second Yu was a near relation of the Chia family, and there was surely nothing against her finding a home and board with her own relatives.
There was no question, he alleged, of her marrying into the clan.
Chang Hua had been in debt to Prince Chen for a long time past and had only taken this action in order to force remission of his debt.
The magistrate who had to judge the case was entangled and involved in friendly associations both with the Chias and with the Wangs, the relatives of Hsi- feng.
He had received considerable gifts of money from both sides., from Prince Chen as well as from Hsi-feng.
He therefore found himself in some embarrassment as to how he could act.
Finally he gave his verdict against Chang Hua, reprimanded him as a slanderer and a quarreller, ordered that he should be given a few strokes, and drove him out of the Court.
Now, just as he was leaving the Court a messenger from Hsi-feng came up to him, handed him a few silver pieces, and whispered to him that he must stand firm and fight on unflinchingly for his just cause; Hsi-feng would pay his debts and continue to stand by him.
At the same time Hsi-feng sent word once more to the magistrate giving him this and that new instruction.
The result was a second action and new proceedings.
This time the magistrate sentenced the plaintiff on the one part to pay back the old debt to Prince Chen, and on the other part he awarded him his legal bride and gave old Chang authority to fetch his daughter-in-law from the house of Chia and take her into his own home.
Highly gratified with the double triumph of having "found in Hsi-feng someone to pay his debts and at the same time being allowed to take possession of his daughter-in-law, old Chang set out for the western palace with the magisterial mandate in his pocket.
Hsi-feng, hiding her satisfaction and feigning pained surprise, hurried to the Ancestress and 54 reported the new turn of events.
"Sister-in-law Chen is to blame for everything,” she said, concluding her report.
"In this matter she acted with an utter lack of discretion.
She should have secured a valid document of relinquishment.
How was | to guess that this Yu was already engaged to someone else?
Naturally, the first bridegroom was justified in making a claim.
Now we shall have the devil to pay!"
The Ancestress had Princess Chen brought before her and rebuked her angrily for her lack of wisdom and discretion.
"But the people did have an indemnity from us in return for which they made out a written document of relinquishment!"
insisted the Princess, much astonished.
"Unfortunately, there is no mention of an indemnity and a deed of relinquishment in the legal protocol,” interjected Hsi-feng quickly.
"Moreover, old Chang declared in a legal statement that it had once been mentioned, without prejudice, that in the event of the death of her betrothed, the second Yu would marry into our family as a secondary wife.
So there is nothing to be done about that.
It is just lucky that my husband is away at present and that the marriage with Yu has not yet been formally celebrated.
But the question is, how are we to get rid of old Chang?
He is here.
We cannot simply send the girl Yu away again just after we have accepted her ceremonially into the family.
We would definitely lose face if we did that."
"But neither would we wish to violate the properly acquired legal rights of other people; that would not be becoming of us either.
It is best, after all, for us to give her up," said the Ancestress.
"But my mother did pay old Chang an indemnity of twenty taels, in such a year, in such a month, and on such a day, and in return old Chang confirmed his relinquishment in writing,” protested the second Yu.
"My sister Chen is quite right.
There is no question of a mistake.
Old Chang has told lies to the Court and is only taking legal action in order to extort money !"
"A disgraceful, troublesome lot!"
said the Ancestress indignantly.
"Hsi-feng, go and get 'the matter put right somehow!"
Hsi-feng obeyed and first of all summoned Chia Yung for a confidential talk.
Chia Yung then consulted with his father, Prince Chen.
Prince Chen in his turn once more sent a secret message to Chang Hua, warning him not to go too far and challenge the princely anger.
Otherwise he might one day die a miserable death and be left unburied.
Let him be thankful for the money, and stop demanding the woman as well.
Now was the time to vanish as quickly as possible; the Prince would give him money to get away.
Chang Hua considered the matter this way and that, and discussed it with his parents.
The Prince's offer did not seem bad at all, and cash was not to be despised.
They agreed among them to demand a further indemnity of a hundred ounces, and early the next morning the parents Chang and their son disappeared from the capital and returned to their native village.
59 Secretly full of malicious joy, Chia Yung told the Ancestress and Hsi-feng the news of their disappearance.
The magistrate had recog- nized that the allegations brought forward by Chang Hua had been entirely without foundation.
Fearing punishment, the whole rascally gang had disappeared.
The magistrate had stopped the proceedings, and so the affair was at an end.
Hsi-feng received the news with very mixed feelings.
On the one hand, she could not shut her eyes to the fact that if Chang Hua had taken Yu away with him, Chia Lien upon his return would probably do his best to get her back from him again, and she did not doubt but that Chang Hua would willingly deliver her up once more.
Thus far, Chang Hua's disappearance did not change matters very much, and moreover it spared expenses.
On the other hand, she had to fear that Chang Hua, being no longer within range of her influence, might gossip and expose her as the instigator of the whole intrigue.
That would turn out unpleasantly for her and possibly even draw her into a lawsuit.
She now had to protect herself against such an eventuality.
Having thought the matter over, she sent her confidant, the porter Little Wang, after the fugitives.
His task was to render the troublesome Chang Hua harmless by hook or by crook.
She left him free to do this either by means of legal accusation on account of alleged theft or some such offense committed on the road, or better still, to have him killed right away by hired assassins.
Little Wang's conscience would not permit him to carry out such a dubious order; at the same time, however, he did not like to rebel openly against his mistress and put his position in jeopardy.
He therefore pretended to obey her order, kept out of sight for some days, and upon his return dished up a fairy tale for Madame Hsi-feng.
Chang Hua, on his journey home, had attracted the attention of higkwaymen by thoughtlessly boasting of all the cash in his possession; on the third day of his flight he had been robbed and murdered and his father had died of a heart attack brought on by shock, in the next inn at which they stopped.
Their bodies had been duly examined by a coroner, and they had been buried immediately, right on the spot.
Hsi-feng received the news with some suspicion and threatened Little Wang that she would have his teeth knocked in if it should transpire afterwards that he had lied.
But she left it at that; for she had no proof to the contrary, and no other confidant than Little Wang at her disposal.
From now on her whole energy was directed, under the mask of friendliness, to making the life of the hated rival in the house as difficult as possible.
On his return from Ping an Chow, Chia Lien was greatly taken aback to find his house in the Lane of the Flowering Branch, which he visited immediately, shut up and empty.
Only an old doorkeeper, who had remained as caretaker, was there.
When he heard from the mouth of the doorkeeper how and why the place was deserted, he got such a shock that his foot slipped from the stirrup.
Then he went straight to his father, Prince Shieh, and gave him a report of his mission.
Prince 56 Shieh expressed his satisfaction and gave him as reward a hundred ounces of silver anda seventeen-year-old chambermaid named Chiu Tung.
Chia Lien thanked him joyfully, striking his forehead on the ground, and went on to pay his respects to the old Tai tai and the other relatives.
Feeling somewhat guilty and embarrassed, he went to confront his wife Hsi-feng, but, contrary to expectation, Hsi-feng did not show the slightest trace of ill-humor.
Smiling gaily, she came to meet him hand in hand with the second Yu and asked him casually about the journey, and the weather he had encountered, as if nothing had occurred between them.
Chia Lien could not suppress a certain joyful satisfaction when he mentioned that his father had just given him a present of a seventeen-year-old concubine.
This was really a new stab in Hsi-feng's heart before the first wound was quite healed, but she controlled herself as best she could, maintained a friendly appearance, and sent two serving women straight over to Prince Shieh's residence to bring back the new member of the household and introduce her properly to the assembled ladies.
Chia Lien could not get over his astonishment at the unexpected .amiability of his normally so jealous principal wife.
How could he know that she was merely acting a part, hiding quite different thoughts.
At the next opportunity, when she was alone with the second Yu, she said to her, with ostensible concern: "Unfortunately, Sister, your reputation is not of the best.
People are whispering about your doubtful past; you are said to have had an affair with your brother-in- law Chen, and that your former fiance scorned and jilted you on that account even the old Tai tai and the other ladies repeat such things.
| am deeply sorry for you.
| have been trying to find out who started all this talk, but up to the present without success.
| have wanted to speak to you about it for quite some time, but as | did not wish to do so before the staff, | had to keep mute as a maggot.
But the whole thing has so upset me that | have been quite ill and have not been able to enjoy a bite for days."
These and similar rumors she had sneeringly spread herself, and soon there was a general whispering throughout the whole house.
There was not one among the female staff, with the sole exception of good P'ing Erh, who did not whisper and murmur within earshot of poor Yu, and who had not taken part in the game of spiteful remarks and hidden allusions and innuendoes by which one names the lime tree and really means the acacia.
The seventeen-year-old concubine, Chiu Tung, had a much better time.
No one dared to censure or criticize her, for she had not come in by a back door but as an open gift from the family Senior, Prince Shieh.
Accordingly, she considered herself to be far above the second Yu.
Not even Hsi-feng or P'ing Erh impressed her greatly, much less that doubtful person who had been jilted and had wormed herself into her present position by way of a dubious and clandestine former association.
Those were her actual words, and Hsi-feng heard them with satisfaction.
She had found in her a suitable tool with which to work against the detested Yu.
Hsi-feng avoided Yu as much as she could.
She constantly feigned illness and had Yu's meals served to her separately, and the food she had set before her was stale, unappetizing 57 stuff.
Good P'ing Erh was the only one to feel for the girl who was being so badly treated, and now and then she got better food for her out of her own pocket money.
Through respect for P'ing Erh, no one in the house dared to object to this or to tell Hsi-feng.
Only Chiu Tung was inconsiderate enough to backbite P'ing Erh.
"Your authority will go completely, Nai nai, if you continue to let your waiting maid do as she pleases," she said to Hsi-feng.
"That exacting person, that Yu woman, leaves your good food untouched and secretly gets food from P'ing Erh in the park!
What do you say to that?"
Thereupon Hsi-feng rebuked her maid soundly.
"In other places the cats get mice to eat, as is proper.
But you actually feed my cat with chicken!"
she scolded.
P'ing Erh did not dare to reply, but to live in such a heartless world revolted her; she wished she were elsewhere, and began to hate Chiu Tung.
Poor Yu also was greatly pitied by the young girls in the Park of Delightful Vision; but Hsi-feng was so feared and knew so well how to dissemble, that no one dared to speak.
Only among themselves and secretly did they venture to bemoan and bewail the fate of the second Yu.
And Chia Lien on his part also allowed himself to be deceived by the play-acting talent of his chief wife.
When he was at home everything seemed smooth and in the best of order.
Moreover, his interest in the second \ u had greatly abated since he had got the seventeen- year-old as a present.
She was to him what dry wood is to a burning flame.
Like glue and lacquer they clung together, and he did not stir from her side for whole days and nights together.
Hsi-feng, of course, hated Chiu Tung no less than she hated the second Yu, but for the present the younger favorite was a valuable confederate and a weapon against the elder one.
She wanted to sit up on a mountain height and look on as the two beasts tore one another to pieces below.
Once the first one was finished, she intended to rush in herself upon the survivor for the kill.
"You are young and inexperienced and you do not know the danger you are in," she whispered to Chiu Tung.
"She possesses his whole heart.
Even | have to give way before her and submit to her.
You will destroy yourself if you run into her so wildly."
In this way she incited and goaded her, and roused the fiery little one to defiance and rebellion.
"| would never dream of giving way before such a person!"
retorted Chiu Tung indignantly.
"One can see by your dwindling authority, Nai nai, what your weak-kneed tolerance leads to.
Leave it to me!
| will deal with this hussy.
She shall get to know me!"
She had deliberately said this so loudly that the second Yu, who was in the next room, had to hear it.
She was in despair at seeing herself surrounded by so much malice, wept tfie whole day long, and could not touch a bite of food, but the next day, when the Ancestress remarked her red and swollen eyelids and asked the reason, she was too timid to open her mouth.
Instead, the cheeky Chiu Tung whispered to the Ancestress and the elder ladies that Yu only wanted to impress Chia Lien by her everlasting moaning and groaning and put him out of 58 humor with his two other wives, whom she secretly wished dead.
The Ancestress, too, was completely taken in and said disapprovingly : "There, one sees again what baseness can be hidden beneath a beautiful exterior!
Hsi-feng means so well by her, and now she shows her gratitude by intriguing against her benefactress!
What a low creature!"
From that hour on, the favor which the second Yu had enjoyed up to now with the Ancestress dwindled away.
And when the others saw that the Ancestress withdrew her affection, they gave up all consideration and trampled on the poor thing in such a way that all her desire to live vanished.
Only good P'ing Erh remained true to her and secretly comforted her as often as she could.
For some time past the second Yu had been pregnant.
It was inevitable that the ill-treatment which she had to put up with should have a harmful effect on her tender, lilylike body, which was so .much in need of care.
She began to ail and grow thin and lose her appetite.
By day she felt tired and worn out, by night disturbing dreams robbed her of sleep.
Once her dead sister, the third Yu, appeared to her in her dreams.
She held in her hand the bejewelled sword, engraved with the pair of ducks, and said to her: "Dear sister, all your life you have heen Jtoo weak and good-natured.
Now you are paying for it.
Do not let >ourself be deceived and fooled any longer by that false, jealous woman!
Outwardly she feigns kindness and nobility of mind, but within she is full of malice and baseness, and she will not rest until she has harried you to death.
If | were still alive | would not have let it come to this or permitted you to go and live with her.
But, unfortunately, it is your unhappy destiny to have to suffer so much now.
In your previous existence you indulged in sensual pleasures and destroyed other people's marriages.
Now you have to do penance for it.
Listen to my advice and take this sword and kill your enemy, that | may bring her before the judgment seat of the Fairy of Fearful Awakening!
Otherwise you will suffer death yourself in vain and not a living being will regret you."
"Dear sister, my life is already ruined beyond all remedy; but as | have to do penance for former sins, | will submit to my fate and not add to my guilt," replied the second Yu, sorrowftully.
The third "Yu sighed and disappeared.
On the following day, when the second Yu was alone with Chia Lien she confided to him that she was pregnant, but that she felt ill and anxious about her own life and that of her'child.
Chia Lien sent for the doctor at once.
He really wanted Doctor Wang, who was known to be good, but the latter was ill and could not come.
In his stead, on the instructions of Hsi-feng, the servant fetched along the quack doctor, Hu, the one who had previously prescribed that "wolf and tiger cure" for Ch'ing Wen.
The remedy which the quack doctor prescribed for poor Yu had the immediate effect of causing an abortion instead of curing her, and the stillborn child which she brought forth with great pain and loss of blood was a boy.
59 Chia Lien was beside himself.
He sent for another doctor, and ordered his servants to seize the quack doctor Hu, and he wanted to take legal action against him.
But Doctor Hu had got word in time and had already fled from the city.
Chia Lien raged, and threatened to have the servant who had fetched the quack beaten to death.
Hsi-feng, while secretly rejoicing, assumed the appearance of being if possible even more upset and indignant than her husband.
"Oh, what a misfortune!"
she lamented.
"Now, when we were so near to seeing our hopes of a legitimate heir fulfilled, this bungler of a doctor must come along and destroy our hopes!
It seems to be our fate to remain without a son."
For the sake of effect she burnt incense and performed solemn prayers, imploring heaven and earth to strike her with illness, but to make the second Yu well again and to bless her body with new offspring.
She vowed that until then she would fast and say daily prayers to Buddha.
Of course everyone in.
the house was touched and ceaselessly praised her noble- mindedness and unselfishness.
Hsi-feng went still further.
With her own hands she made invalid soup for her rival and had a fortuneteller brought at her own expense to foretell the patient's fate.
The fortuneteller, who had been appropriately worked upon be33Q forehand by Hsi-feng, wanted to know if there was a woman born under the sign of the cock who might be bringing misfortune on the patient.
Now, in the whole house there was only one person who was born under the sign of the cock, and that was the seventeen-year-old concubine, Chiu Tung.
Chiu Tung foamed at the mouth when Hsi-feng informed her of the soothsayer's verdict, at the same time advising her, in a friendly way, that if she valued her life and the peace of the house she should disappear for some time.
"Ah, what do | care about the foolish talk of a half-starved buffoon like that soothsayer!"
she cried, indignantly.
"I am just as much of a human being as Yu is.
She was in contact with all kinds of people formerly; therefore, why should it be just | who should be said to bring her ill luck?
And anyhow, why is there so much fuss about her child?
Who knows where this everybody's darling got her bastard from?
She may spin a yarn to our simple master, but she cannot hoodwink us!
To have a child!
What is wonderful about that, anyway?
You wait just a bare year, and it comes of itself.
Any woman can do that!"
Just as she was raging away like this, Princess Shieh happened to arrive to visit.
"| am to be scared away because a soothsayer asserts that 1 stand in the other one's way," she complained to her.
"But | do not know where to go.
Be so good as to stand by me, Tai tai!"
Princess Shieh then took her under her protection and reprimanded Chia Lien in her presence.
How could he dare to cast aside, for the sake of a mere adventuress, the girl whom his own father had given him?
To do so amounted to an affront to his father.
And she angrily turned her back on him.
60 Chiu Tung now felt more on top than ever.
Scarcely had the Princess left when she went out under the window of the neighboring pavilion and broke into loud abuse and execration of the second Yu, who was inside.
The unhappy girl was completely crushed.
That same night, while Chia Lien was enjoying himself with Chiu Tung, and Hsi-feng was asleep, she came to a sad decision after long brooding.
Why should she continue this wretched, wrecked existence?
She felt that she would never again be well and happy and that the beloved one was lost to her beyond recall.
With the hope of a child shattered by the miscarriage, she had nothing more in the world to look forward to.
Why, then, should she just drag on without a purpose?
Death seemed to her to be the only decent way out of her misery.
Merely to choose the kind of death was the one problem left.
A violent kind of death such as hanging herself, or stabbing herself with a dagger, was repugnant to her.
Then she remembered having often heard that one could kill oneself in a quick, painless way by swallowing crude gold; and her decision was made.
She rose with difficulty from her bed, opened her treasure trunk, and rummaged in it for a piece of loose gold suitable for her purpose.
Just as the drum beat the fifth night watch outside, she gave herself a jerk and carried out her purpose.
At first the deadly morsel would not go down her throat, but finally she swallowed it with a brave effort.
Then she quickly put on a festive robe and her best jewelry, scrambled back onto her bed, and resignedly awaited her death.
It was already late in the morning, and only after being reprimanded by good P'ing Erh, that the lazy waiting maids felt obliged to look in at the sick mistress in the eastern wing, from whom not a call nor an order had come the whole morning.
When they opened the door of the bedroom they found a dead woman before them.
They ran out again terrified and shouted at P'ing Erh to come.
P'ing Erh felt her heart torn with pity at the sight of the jewel-bedecked corpse, and paid respect to it with a loud lamentation.
And the waiting maids and serving maids, who through fear of Hsi-feng had helped so zealously by their rudeness and disobedience to make poor Yu disgusted with life, now suddenly remembered that the deceased had always been a goodhearted, kind mistress who gave no one cause to complain, and overcome with remorse and pity they joined in P'ing Erh's lamentation, as long as Hsi-feng was not present.
Chia Lien was inconsolable, but Hsi-feng tried to outdo his grief, which was genuine, by her own hypocritical mourning.
"Dear sister, why have you left me?
Is that your gratitude for my love?"
she lamented pathetically.
In accordance with Chia Lien's wish, the body remained laid out on a bier for a whole week in the Pear Garden, where he faithfully kept the death watch over it and had the customary funeral rites celebrated for the soul of the departed.
But at the instigation of Hsi-feng, burial in the family temple, which he had desired, was refused him by the Ancestress.
After a simple funeral, at which only the nearest relatives participated and from which Hsi-feng absented herself on the plea of not being well, the second Yu was laid to rest in a modest little grave 61 outside the city walls, beside that of her sister.
62
CHAPTER 73-75 The bag with the pornographic embroidery becomes a traitor in the hands of a simple girl.
The girls in the Park of Delightful Vision fall into discredit and have to suffer the torture of a house search.
FOR MONTHS PAST Hsi-feng HAD BEEN SUFFERING FROM AN OBSTINATE female ailment which frequently confined her to her room and her sickbed.
Without her constant supervision, discipline in the western palace had gradually become lax, and even in the Park of Delightful Vision irregularities had crept in, which were little in keeping with the strict order which should rule in this carefully sheltered domain of virtuous young ladies of the house.
Recently Yuan Yang, taking an evening walk through the park, had caught Greeting of Spring's chess maid on a secret rendezvous in the bushes with a young manservant, who had climbed in over the wall.
It was an unheard-of happening, which would have meant a terrible flogging for both parties if it had become known.
True, Yuan Yang had very considerately kept silent about it, and of course the fellow had made off at once.
Nevertheless, the culprit was to be detected later.
Late oHe evening, just as Pao-yU, had gone to bed, the waiting maid Magpie, from the apartments of Aunt Chao, the secondary wife of Mr. Cheng, appeared in the Begonia Courtyard and, despite the late hour, asked to speak to Pao-yu,.
Her mistress had just been discussing something in a whisper with his father, and she had caught Pao-yu,'s name, so she wanted to give him advance warning for a talk with his father tomorrow.
That was the only important thing she had to say.
It was very little, to be sure, but it was enough to frighten Pao- yu, very considerably.
He said to himself that it did not bode any good when the secondary wife, who was so ill- disposed towards him, made him the subject of a secret conversation with his father.
Chia Cheng had recently returned from the provinces and at the time was enjoying a holiday which the Imperial government had granted him.
Up to the present he had been spending this welcome leisure peacefully and meditatively at home, resting from the fatigue-of service.
Contrary to his usual habit, he had left Pao-yU, alone this tine and spared him the usual severe cross-examination about his studies and progress.
Now Pao-yu, was afraid that the secondary wife Chao might have suggested that a new examination of his offspring's work was overdue.
Perhaps the dreaded examination might take place the very next day.
And he felt completely unprepared !
With one jump he leaped out of bed.
dressed himself quickly, and took up the long-neglected classics.
He was going to spend the whole night quickly preparing himself, in so far as he could, and brushing up his incomplete knowledge.
Of course the night's rest was also at an end for the waiting maids, who watched him poring over his books by the light of a candle and heard him groaning and moaning as he strenuously racked his brains.
"Such a beast !
To surprise us in the middle of the night with her false alarms!
A few good pricks of a needle would be the right thing for herself and her old mistress!"
grumbled Ch'ing 63 Wen angrily.
Meantime the waiting maid She Yueh had poured out fresh tea and put a bowl of it in front of her worried master to refresh him.
She was only lightly clothed in a short, thin petticoat.
"Will you not put on something warmer?
The night is cool and you will catch cold," he said anxiously, looking up from his books.
"Oh, do not let us distract you from your work!
You should only think of those now!"
she warned him, smilingly pointing to his books.
At that moment two younger maids ran in frightened and shrieking.
A man had got into the park over the wall, they reported breathlessly.
"It's terrible!
Where has he run to?
The park must be searched with lanterns for him!"
they all said, chattering together excitedly.
But the clever and compassionate Ch'ing Wen saw at once that here was a chance for her poor little master to escape the morning examination.
"This hard night work will not really help you very much," she whispered to Pao-yu,.
"Pretend you have become ill through fright, and just stay in bed in the morning!
Then you will get over the trouble."
Pao-yu, joyfully snatched at the suggestion, shut the detested books, arid lay down quietly to sleep.
But first of all he gave instructions for all the women and the male porters of the gate watch to search every corner of the park with lanterns for the intruder.
The search was without result.
Presumably the young girls had imagined things in their sleep and allowed themselves to be frightened by the wind rustling in the branches of the trees, the searchers said.
"Nonsense!
The girls' report is probably quite correct; you have not searched well," Ch'ing Wen declared firmly to the servants of the gate watch.
"The little master and we others have also heard the suspicious noise.
Surely we cannot all have been deceived.
The little master is ill from excitement; he has a fever and is sweating all over his body.
I'm going to his mother to fetch pills to get down the fever.
Would it be necessary for me to do that if the story was as harmless as you allege?"
Whereupon the gate watchers, mystified, renewed their search.
Meantime Ch'ing Wen hurried over to the Tai tai Cheng and saw to it that the news of the nocturnal incident and of Pao-yi,'s illness was spread everywhere throughout the palace.
The frightened Madame Cheng brought the matter before the old Tai tai the next morning.
The old Tai tai was beside herself and strongly criticized the carelessness of the staff in the park.
"The worst of it is that our own people cannot be trusted.
Perhaps they are hushing up the matter because the criminal is to be found in their own midst," she said.
While the older ladies present, Princess Shieh and Princess Chen, Madame Cheng, Hsi-feng, and the Widow Chu, maintained an embarrassed silence, Taste of Spring came forward and 64 declared: "Since Cousin Hsi-feng has been ill and unable to attend to the park so much, the discipline among the servants has become more and more lax.
Formerly the servants used to sneak away from their duties only for an occasional hour, for a little game of cards in private, three or four of them together.
Recently the gambling has been going on quite openly and on a large scale, with a club committee and all the rest of it, and stakes of thirty to fifty thousand- piece strings of money.
A short time ago there was actually a great fight."
"But that is an outrageous state of affairs!
Why have you not reported it before?"
asked the Ancestress indignantly.
"Mother always had so many other things to think about, and recently her health has been failing.
| wanted to spare her annoyance; that is why | kept silent," said Taste of Spring.
"You take the matter far too lightly," said the Ancestress reproachfully.
"If it stopped at a little game or a harmless dispute!
But this gambling for money night after night leads in its turn to drinking and intemperance; wine and food are smuggled in by crooked means; then doors and gates are opened secretly; and the open doors and gates entice in thieves and vagabonds; and it goes on.
You must bear in mind that among such a numerous staff there are bound to be many bad elements, and these, when encouraged by opportunity, give free scope to their wicked instincts and infect the others.
And to think that such things are going on in the immediate neighborhood of you virtuous, well-protected young girls !
The harm which you yourselves could come to in such corrupt surroundings is inconceivable!"
Tn-4e of Spring returned silently to her place.
But the energetic Hsi-feng forthwith summoned the four wives of the stewards who were directly responsible to her for the temale staff, and reprimanded them severely in the presence of the Ancestress.
The Ancestress then sent them into the park to find out the culprits who had been participating in the secret gambling and to bring them before her; and she offered a cash reward for each person informed upon and threatened punishment by flogging for any attempt at concealment.
The result of the investigation was that three chief gambling man- ageresses, eight gambling submanageresses, and fwenty other participants were indicted and brought before the Ancestress.
The Ancestress made them kneel down in the courtyard and subjected them to a thorough cross-examination.
Dice, counters, and other gambling equipment were collected, stacked up in heaps, and burned.
The gambling funds were confiscated and divided among the other servants.
The threeprincipal culprits received forty strokes twice over and were dismissed from service.
They were never to be allowed to enter the palace again.
The other persons implicated received twenty stripes and were punished besides by deduction of three months' wages, and reduced to the lowest grade of service, that of lavatory attendants.
Among the three chief culprits was Greeting of Spring's nurse.
Pao-ch'ai and Black Ja'de and the other young girls appealed in vain for a pardon for the nurse, to save their cousin's face; but the Ancestress remained unrelenting and, despite their intercession, chased her granddaughter's nurse out of the house.
65 While the Ancestress, exhausted from the recent excitements, was taking her midday rest, Princess Shieh set out on a tour of inspection of the park.
She was just about to enter the park gate when the maid Numskull, chuckling gleefully to herself and swinging a green and red embroidered bag in her hand, ran into her path.
The little fifteen-year-old had been in the household only a short time and served the Ancestress doing rough work and running errands.
The Ancestress had taken a fancy to the hefty, uncouth creature, with the broad face and the big strong feet, whose simplicity was a source of constant amusement; it was she who had given her the name of Numskull.
She treated the young girl with special indulgence, and even allowed hef to play in the park now and then in her spare time.
It was on one of these frolics that she had just now picked up a brightly embroidered perfume bag, among some isolated rocks, off the roadway.
The embroidery was not of the usual patterns taken from the world of flowers and birds, but showed on the front a couple in close embrace and on the back a series of written characters.
Our Numskull had no inkling of the vernal significance of the picture.
She innocently thought that the two naked figures were either two demons fighting or a married couple brawling.
Beaming with joy, she was about to take her find to the Ancestress when she ran into Princess Shieh on the way.
"Oh, what beautiful thing has our Numskull picked up, that she's so pleased about?
Let me have a look," asked the Princess.
"Yes, it's somethinj wonderfully beautiful!
Here, look at it yourself, Tai tai!"
replied Numskull, as she held up the bag to the Princess.
A hurried glance sufficed to make the Princess recoil in horror.
"Where did you pick it up?"
she inquired excitedly.
"| found it between the rocks when | was catching grasshoppers."
"It is something very wicked.
You really deserve a sound thrashing for having touched it; but because you are our Numskull and don't know what it is all about, you shall be forgiven this time.
In any case, keep your mouth shut and do not speak to anyone about what you have found.
Do you understand?"
Numskull turned pale with fright, quickly made a kowtow of apology, and slipped away feeling thoroughly perplexed.
The Princess hid the bag in the pocket of her sleeve and, shaking her head, set off for the pavilion of her stepdaughter, Greeting of Spring.
"That is a nice turn your nurse has played you !
And to think that a big sensible girl like you could allow such a thing to happen and not open her mouth!"
she said reproachfully to Greeting of Spring.
"And that such a thing should happen to my daughter, of all people!"
Greeting of Spring sulkily bent her head for a moment and started lacing up her belt.
"| took her to task twice, but it was no use.
What more could | do?
After all, she as my nurse has more right to give me a talking to than | have t?
give her one," replied Ying Ch'un ill- 66 humoredly.
She could not get over the hard sentence which her nurse had received.
"Nonsense!
You are her mistress, and it was not only your right but also your duty to keep an eye on her, if she was not behaving properly.
And if she did not obey you, you should have informed me.
And what do these goings-on lead to?
This person has probably been hiring out your jewelry and clothing to pay her gambling debts.
But mind you: If you have been silly enough to grant her favors of this kind, you cannot count on any more pocket money from me.
So, just look out where you are to get money from for the coming Mid-Autumn Festival!"
When Greeting of Spring remained defiantly silent, the Princess continued, appealing to her sense of honor: "Your own mother, the concubine Chou, is such a splendid woman !
She is ten times better than the mother of your cousin T'an Ch'un the concubine Chao.
You should make an effort to emulate your mother and also to be superior to your cousin.
Unfortunately, you are not yet half as good as she is.
Well, it is all the same to me.
| have neither sons nor daughters of my own, and therefore | am fortunately not in danger of being shamed by my children.
But..." She was interrupted in her talk by a waiting maid who announced that the old Tai tai had finished her midday rest, whereupon the Princess hurriedly cut short her visit and took her leave in order to go back and keep the Ancestress company again.
"What about that jewelry of yours which was lost the gold-braided phoenix clasp with the She Yue insets?"
asked the waiting maid Orange as soon as the Princess had left.
"When | discovered the loss | at once suspected that your nurse might have taken the precious article and pawned it to pay her gambling debts.
You thought at the time that the chess maid had put it away, but when | asked her she said she had last put it in the jewel case on the bookshelf, to have it ready for you for the fifteenth of the eighth month, the day of the Mid-Autumn Festival.
But it has disappeared from the case.
You ought to send for your nurse and ask her about it."
"Ah, what for!"
replied Greeting of Spring indifferently.
"Of course she has taken it.
| myself gave her permission because she was in some difficulty at the time.
| made her promise that she would return it soon and put it back in the box, but evidently she forgot all about it.
Now that she has so many other troubles, | don't want to worry her with this matter."
"She remembers it well enough; she's just counting on your good nature and on your forgetfulness.
Should we not inform Madame Hsi-feng and demand back your property through her?
Or, if you do not want to make a fuss about it, perhaps we could induce your nurse to give it back for a few strings of money.
What do you think?"
"Let it be!
Why all this fuss?
| do not miss the piece at all."
"How can one go to such lengths of good nature?
You simply invite people to cheat you when you behave like that!"
said Orange; and she thought, as she shook her head, that her mistress well deserved the nickname of "Blockhead" which she bore.
The best thing is for me 67 to try to get justice for her, she thought to herself, turning to go out the door.
Meantime a daughter-in-law of the dismissed nurse had arrived outside.
She was the wife of the servant Yu Kwei, and had come to put in a good word with Greeting of Spring for her mother-in-law.
While she was outside she had happened to hear the discussion between Greeting of Spring and Orange regarding the lost piece of jewelry.
When she heard Orange's decision to go to Madame Hsi-feng and report the matter, she felt impelled to intervene, and she walked in with a smile.
First of all she turned to Orange and asked her to refrain from going to Madame Hsi-feng, and thus avoid a new scandal.
Naturally, it was a matter of honor for her family to redeem and return promptly the young lady's jewelry which her mother-in-law had borrowed and pawned on account of a temporary monetary embarrassment.
Then she presented her further petition to Ying Ch'un asking her to take up the cause of her old nurse and intercede for her with the Ancestress.
"It's completely useless!
My cousins and | have already begged in vain for mercy for her,” Greeting of Spring informed her curtly.
"Surely, Sister-in-law, you are not making the return of the jewelry dependent upon my young lady's interceding for your mother-in-law?
One matter has nothing to do with the other," said Orange sharply.
"Kindly bring back the jewelry first, and then we will discuss matters further!"
"None of your impudence, Miss!"
replied the other, annoyed at the double rebuff: "In other places people still have compassion for their old nurses.
But here they are stingy, and if the account does not tally to the dot there is a hue and cry, and tales are told.
Not even your own relative, Miss Chou-yen, fared any better.
All the time the poor young lady lived here she had to scrape a tael every month from her miserable bit of pocket money and hand it out to her mother.
Was that noble or generous?
No wonder that the poor young lady was always short of everything.
And who was it who always helped her out?
My mother-in-law.
Up to thirty taels at the very least she paid out of her own pocket in this way up to today.
And who repays her the loss, eh?"
Orange was going to reply angrily, but Ying Ch'un touched to the quick by the all-too-well- merited reproach, stopped her from speaking.
"Enough of this quarrelling!
| relinquish the jewelry," she decided.
"If my mother asks about it, | will just say that | have lost it.
And that settles the matter.
And now go away!
But you bring me tea!"
she said, turning to Orange.
Muttering and sulking, Orange went off to the kitchen, but Greeting of Spring lay down full length and casually took up a book.
It was a day full of exasperation for the worried Madame Hsi-feng.
In the morning there was the bother about the happenings in the park, of which of course she had to bear the brunt.
In the afternoon there was still another worry.
The approaching Mid-Autumn Festival would have to be financed, but the funds were exhausted and the new rents had not yet come in.
She had to send YUan Yang to a lumber-room in the dwelling of the Ancestress to get an ancient, 68 dusty trunk full of old jewelry, and to pawn the contents, which brought in a thousand taels.
And she heard from Chia Lien that the matter had got to the ears of her aunt through Numskull.
How exasperating!
So the Ancestress would also hear about it, and that would mean a reprimand.
While she was still discussing this latest mishap with P'ing Erh, her aunt, Madame Cheng, was suddenly announced.
Without uttering a word, and showing every sign of the greatest agitation on her face, the Tai tai rushed into the room and sank down groaning on the divan.
At a sign P'ing Erh and the other waiting maids had to leave the room.
The Tai tai now pulled out of her sleeve pocket a brightly embroidered perfume bag, and with tears in her eyes silently held it up to Hsi-feng.
"Where on earth did you get such a thing?"
asked Hsi-feng after she had noted with horror the indecent picture on the bag.
"Where did | get it?"
replied the Tai tai in a tone of suppressed excitement.
"It was lying about in broad daylight between the rocks in the park.
Numskull found it and was already on her way to show it to the Ancestress.
Luckily, Sister-in-law Shieh took it from her on the way; otherwise the Ancestress would have seen it, and then Oh, | don't dare think of it!
| am beside myself.
| thought | could rely on you, and now you do this to me!
How on earth could you be so thoughtless as to leave the thing lying about in the park?"
"But why do you assume that the thing belongs to me?"
asked Hsi-feng, turning pale.
"Who else could it be but you?
We others are middle-aged women, and long past such frivolities.
Or could it possibly be one of the young girls in the park?
No!
There can be no question of that!
No!
It must have come originally from your husband.
How like that incorrigibly frivolous fellow!
You two are still young people, after all, and young people do find pleasure in silly trifles of the kind.
Everyone knows that.
You need not deny it.
It is only lucky that it was not found by any of the park staff.
That would have caused talk!
Your cousins would have fallen into disrepute.
And what if the innocent creatures themselves had caught sight, of it?
Oh, | dare not even think of that!"
Flushing and turning pale alternately, Hsi-feng had listened to the Tai tai.
Now she threw herself at her feet.
"You are quite right, Aunt, but | assure you that | have never possessed such a bag, and | have no idea how it got into the park," she protested with tears.. "Just look closely at this thing with its tassels.
It is a cheap street-market article, a bad imitation of a palace pattern.
| have never liked such tawdry stuff.
But if | possessed anything of that kind | would have hidden it carefully and not have carried it around with me openly, or taken it into the park, where my cousins might possibly see it.
How could you think me capable of such thoughtlessness?
After all, | am not the only youngish woman in the palace.
Over in the eastern palace there is Sister-in-law Chen, whom one can hardly regard yet as belonging to the older set, and there is her daughter-in-law Yung and her people, and there are various young women servants, 69 and the park is just as open to all of them as it is to me.
Or perhaps the owner is even one of the park staff herself.
Among so many people it is impossible to Keep a watch on the behavior of each individual.
How can one know if this or that woman may be carrying on some secret love intrigue with some friend among the male staff?
Why is it just | who am suspected?"
The Tai tai could not close her ears to the logic of Hsi-feng's words.
"Do get up!"
she said, placated.
"| Know well that you are the best of all the young women of the family, and the one least capable of any impropriety.
| have done you an injustice.
But what shall we do now?
| was almost frightened to death when your mother-in-law sent me this disgusting object just now."
"Do not worry.
| Know what to do.
Above all, we must avoid any fuss, in order to spare the old Tai tai any new excitements.
As it is, the dismissals of today have left some gaps among the older supervisory staff over there.
Let us, for the time being, send some women supervisors over from this side women whom we know thoroughly well and can rely upon, such as the wives of the stewards Chou Jui and Lai Wang, and have investigations made quietly, ostensibly in connection with the forbidden gambling.
In this way, this and that offense will come to Kght and offer us an opportunity to weed out and dismiss any undesirable maids from among the older staff.
We have far too many marriageable young women over there!
Very well!
Let them marry!
A reduction in the staff is also very desirable for reasons of economy.
What do you think?"
"You are quite right; | am in full agreement,” replied the Tai tai with a sigh.
"On the other hand, | would not like to be unfair to our young girls.
After all, each of them has only got three useful waiting maids at her disposal.
The remaining little devils hardly count, on the whole, though one would not like to deprive the girls of their service and their company completely.
That would be neither in accordance with my ideas nor those of the old Tai tai.
The best thing is for me to look into the matter myself as soon as | have time.
Meanwhile the women supervisors whom you suggest can take up their posts over there and quietly make investigations."
Hsi-feng had the five reliable elderly ladies whom she had in mind brought in, and gave them the necessary instructions.
The Tai tai Cheng added to these five the wife of the steward Wang Shan Pao, who had come in by chance to eavesdrop.
She was one of Princess Shieh's serving women and enjoyed her special confidence, and it was she who had brought over the aforementioned perfume bag.
"Ask your mistress if she would send you for a time to the park as supervisor, as a special favor for me," Madame Cheng said to her.
She was anxious to forestall any possible later reproaches regarding partiality.
This sixth woman received the order with secret satisfaction.
Here was a welcome opportunity to get her own back at last on the waiting maids in the park.
She had never had a good word for that high-spirited, conceited lot, who showed her scant respect whenever she went into the park.
"There is no need to waste words on the subject; a strict investiga- 70 tion over in the park is long overdue," she growled.
"You do not really go into the park much, Tai tai, so you could not know what goes on there.
Those young things, the waiting maids, are as arrogant as if they themselves were real highborn 'Miss Thousand-Gold-Pieces' with Imperial titles of honor.
The like of us dare not open our mouths or they at once put on airs of being offended and accuse us of persecuting them and intriguing against them.
It's a nice state of affairs, indeed ! "
"Well, they are no doubt our elite.
No wonder that they think something of themselves,” said Madame Cheng with a smile.
"That may be true of the others, but one of them, the maid Ch'ing Wen who serves our young master Pao-yu, is a really bad lot," continued the sixth vehemently.
"She is certainly pretty, but does the conceited thing have to deck herself out on that account day after day, as if she was a Hsi Shih?
And how brazenly and pertly she answers us back and rebels if one of us dares to make the slightest remark; you wouldn't believe it!"
Madame Cheng was astonished.
"Perhaps that is the one who struck me so unpleasantly by the loud, quarrelsome way she rebuked a maid in the Begonia Courtyard the last time we went for a walk in the park with the old Tai tai?"
she said, turning to Hsi-feng.
"I mean the one with the eel-like figure, and the narrow, sloping shoulders, and the undivided Hsi Shih eyebrows, which remind me of Tai-yui's brows.
| intended to rebuke her for her unseemly behavior, but | couldn't because | was tied to the old Tai tai, and later it slipped my mind."
"By your description it may have been she; but | cannot remember exactly,” said Hsi-feng.
"This Ch'ing Wen is no doubt pretty, but she is also an impudent, frivolous person.” "Just send for her, Tai tai!
Then it can be seen if your surmise is correct," suggested the sixth.
Madame Cheng followed her advice and ordered Ch'ing Wen to be sent for.
Ch'ing Wen was not feeling well that day and had got up reluctantly from her bed when she was called.
Now she appeared half dressed, flushed from sleep, and with dishevelled hair before the Tai tai.
With a hasty glance of displeasure the Tai tai recognized her as the one she had recently encountered.
"So this is our lovely sick Hsi Shih," she remarked mockingly.
"For whom do you put on all that vanity?
You think, | suppose, that | do not see through you?
Just wait, very soon | will have you skinned alive!
How is my son Pao-yU,?"
she continued in an unfriendly tone.
Being quick-witted, Ch'ing Wen rapidly recovered from her first surprise and grasped the danger of her position, which demanded the utmost tact in her answers.She quickly fell on her knees.
"| really would not know, | so seldom come into the young gentle-man's vicinity," she lied.
"The Tai tai should inquire of his personal waiting maids, She Yue and Hsi Jen."
"You deserve a slap on your mouth !
Simply pretending not to know anything!
What are your 71 duties?"
asked the Tai tai sternly.
"| used to serve the old Tai tai, but because Master Pao-yU, sometimes felt nervous and lonely in the big park | was later assigned to the Begonia Courtyard and | do night watch there in the outer chambers.
Really | did not want to go, and | asked the old Tai tai to keep me with her, as | thought | was too unskillful to serve the young gentleman.
But the old Tai tai scolded me and said that my work over there would not call for any special intelligence, and that | would have nothing to do with the personal affairs of the young gentleman.
And so | gave in.
| hardly ever meet the young gentleman, no more than once in a fortnight, when he calls me, and then | exchange a few words with him.
His serving women and the waiting maids She Yue, Hsi Jen, and Ch'iu Wen do all the personal attendance.
Besides, | frequently spend my hours of leisure with the old Tai tai doing needlework.
So | scarcely ever have to look after the young gentleman.
But if you wish, | can do so from now on."
"By Buddha, | am glad to hear that you have so little to do in his vicinity!"
cried Madame Cheng, who took what the girl had said to be perfectly true.
"I certainly don't intend to ask you to spend more time with your master in future.
On the contrary, | shall ask the old Tai tai to take you away again.
Until then, keep an eye on her!
Do not allow her to be near him at night!"
she said, turning to the six supervisors.
And then to Ch'ing Wen: "Get out!
What are you lingering here for?
The sight of you gets on my nerves!"
Ch'ing Wen slipped out quickly.
The Tai tai angrily muttered something which sounded like "Witch" and "Seducer" as she went out, and ordered that a strict house-to-house search should take place in the park that same evening.
Early at night, after the Ancestress had retired, Hsi-feng set out on her tour of ‘inspection with the overseers.
All the park gates had to be locked after them when they had entered.
The search started in the apartments of the night watch staff.
There a slight excess over the prescribed stocks of lamps, candles, and oil was discovered.
"That counts as stolen property.
It is not to be touched until | inform the Tai tai in the morning!"
the wife of the steward Wang Shan Pao declared severely.
Then they went on to the Begonia Courtyard.
"We are looking for a valuable object which has been lost.
One of the waiting maids is suspected of being the thief," Hsi-feng explained to the astonished Pao-yu, as a reason for the late visit.
While she sat down and took tea the supervisors proceeded with the search.
All the staff, one after the other, had to open their boxes and trunks and turn out the contents.
It came to a heated exchange of words between Wang and the indignant Ch'ing Wen, in which the former entrenched herself behind the order of her Tai tai and the latter used as her trump card her position of confidence with the old Tai tai.
However, the search did not bring to light any forbidden, telltale things of masculine origin.
It was now the turn of the Bamboo Hermitage, the Jungle Courtyard having been passed over in consideration of the fact that its mistress did not belong to the inner circle of the family but only lived there as a guest.
Tai-yu had already gone to bed when the search commission arrived.
She was about to dress hurriedly but Hsi-feng considerately stopped her, made her 72 lie down again, and sat and chatted pleasantly with her while the delegation was at work.
Here also the search was without result.
There were only a few suspicious articles found among the maid Tzu Chuan's things, such as fans with writing on them, little bags, and belt buckles, but Hsi-feng at once confirmed these as being harmless birthday gifts from Pao-yu,.
They went on to the pavilion of T’an Ch'un Pao-yt,'s half sister.
She had already been informed of their coming and was awaiting the delegation in front of the door at the head of her waiting maids, a candle in her hand.
She seemed really annoyed about the matter.
"If my waiting maids steal, then of course | am the head of the robber band.
Will you not begin your search with me?
My boxes and trunks are there open for you, you will certainly find the stolen articles in them,” she replied irritably to the flowery apologies to which Hsi-feng treated her before beginning.
She ordered the maids to spread out all her stock of clothing and linen and jewelry before the eyes of the high commission.
Hsi-feng ordered the maids to clear them away again without looking at them.
"lam acting on higher authority; therefore you need not be angry with me," she said with an embarrassed smile, trying to pacify the angry girl.
"Oh, please, do not be deterred!"
replied T'an Ch'un irritably.
"What is fair to my maids is fair to me.
Besides, | Know up to the last needle what they have, and they certainly have nothing which is stolen, you may be sure of that!
You would be more likely to find stolen goods with me...." She talked on in this way in the greatest agitation, even coming to tears.
Hsi-feng, who knew Taste of Spring to be a difficult character, wanted to end the scene quickly and rose to go.
"Oh, do please search thoroughly!
There may not be another opportunity immediately, and in any case | will not be here for it a second time," urged Taste of Spring.
"Oh, it's all right, | take your word that your waiting maids are not thieves," protested Hsi-feng with a smile.
"Have you searched thoroughly?"
asked T'an Ch'un turning to the other members of the commission.
"Yes, thoroughly,” replied the supervisors, smiling, as they followed Hsi-feng to the door.
But one of them, namely, the wife of Wang Shan Pao, was not so easily satisfied.
As confidential serving woman of Princess Shieh, and special delegate of the Tai tai Cheng, she felt conscious of her authority.
Her pride would not allow her to be intimidated by this young girl, for whom in any case she had little respect.
She went up to T'an Ch'un daringly seized the lapel of her gown, lifted it up, and inquisitively poked into every fold.
"Only a little personal search," she remarked, grinning maliciously.
"Come along, old woman!
Stop this foolery!"
Hsi-feng warned her angrily, arid at the same moment she heard Taste of Spring give the old woman a resounding box on the ears.
73 “How dare you touch me!"
cried T'an Ch'un enraged.
"If the Tai tai wishes my person to be searched, very well, | will submit to it.
But | will on no account permit myself to be touched by the like of you.
You think, because you are old and have my aunt behind you, that you can bark at us and take all kinds of liberties.
But this time your impudence has gone too far!"
While she fastened up the buttons of her gown with her left hand, she drew Hsi-feng back with her right.
"Will you search me, please?
| have no objection, but spare me the ignominy of being searched by a slave!"
she cried angrily.
Hsi-feng and She Yue together put her clothing right again.
"The old woman has drunk two mouthfuls too much wine; that explains her recklessness.
She has just been with the Tai tai.
Do not be angry with her!"
said Hsi-feng, trying to pacify the excited girl.
"And you get out of here!"
she cried to old Wang.
"| will complain to the old Tai tai tomorrow," declared T'an Ch'un angrily.
"And | will complain to my mistress and to your mother," the scolding voice of the old woman, who had fled, called up from under the window.
"Such a thing has never happened to me before in my life!
To have my ears boxed in my old age!
1 demand satisfaction!"
"Do you hear her bawling?
Apparently she has not yet had enough,” said Taste of Spring scornfully, turning to her waiting maids.
One of the waiting maids ran out in front of the window.
"Be reasonable and keep quiet at last!"
she said to the old woman.
"We won't mind if you go away, then we shall at last be rid of you, you old intriguer.
But make haste!
You are staying here too long for us!"
By their united efforts Hsi-feng and She Yue at last succeeded in calming the ruffled tempers on both sides, and the commission continued on its way.
The next objective was the Rice Farm.
In consideration of the fact that the Widow Chu was not well, they refrained from alarming her by waking her up, and confined themselves to a brief search of her servants’ belongings, which yielded no result.
Then they went on to the near-by Little Castle of Warm Perfumes, the residence of Grief of Spring.
Hsi Ch'un the youngest of the cousins and still little more than a child, was naturally considerably frightened by the nocturnal search, which was quite incomprehensible to her, and Hsi-feng had all she could do to calm her.
Who would have dreamed that the cause of all the trouble would be found in the house of this innocent, youngest girl, still half a child?
Hidden in the painting maid's trunk they discovered a heavy parcel of thirty or forty silver bars, each weighing ten ounces.
That was indeed a surprising discovery that instead of the scandalous things they were looking for, stolen goods should be brought to light!
But they did not have to wait long for the scandalous objects, too, for they rummaged out a jade belt tablet, and a whole pile of men's stockings and slippers.
"Where did you get all this from?"
Hsi-feng, 74 her face quite yellow with shock, asked the painting maid.
"They are presents from Prince Chen to my brother," confessed the painting maid, falling on her knees in tears.
"My brother gave me the things to keep for him, for my parents are ona journey to the southern provinces and my brother is living with Aunt and Uncle at present.
And as Aunt and Uncle play cards and drink, my brother was afraid that they would take away his things and gamble them away or sell them for drink."
"That is outrageous!
And | did not have the slightest suspicion of it!
You must certainly punish her and take her away from here, Sister-inlaw Hsi-feng.
| do not like such a person to be near me," said Hsi Ch'un indignantly.
"Did your brother bring the things here himself?"
asked Hsi-feng severely.
"No, a serving woman brought them.
| do not know her name."
"Well, that is a good thing," said Hsi-feng, relieved.
"Now we must find out whether your information is correct.
If you have told the truth then you may be forgiven.
After all, it is not wrong of you to take care of other people's things.
It is the woman who smuggled in the articles who deserves to be reprimanded.
Certainly, if your brother had brought them here or if they were stolen goods, then it would go badly with you."
"Inquire of the serving woman and of Prince Chen!
| have definitely told the truth," whimpered the painting maid.
"Have me and my brother beaten to death if | have lied!"
"Now, calm yourself.
Nothing will happen to you if the Prince confirms your information.
But in future you must not take other people's belongings into your charge."
"Why are you so lenient, Sister-in-law Hsi-feng?
| do not like her any more.
At best she will corrupt the others," declared Grief of Spring.
"Let it be!
After all, she is otherwise capable and useful.
Everyone makes a little mistake sometime," said Hsi-feng with a placating smile.
"If | only knew who it was who smuggled in the things.” "Probably old Chang at the back gate," said Grief of Spring.
"She is always very friendly with Our waiting maids, and the maids think an extraordinary lot of her."
"Take a note of her name!
| shall question her later," said Hsi-feng, turning to her attendants and making ready to depart.
The wife of the steward Chou Jui had to pack up the articles which had been found and take them with her.
It happened that the aforementioned Chang was a relative of old Wang but they had been on bad terms for some time past.
Since old Wang had become the special confidante of Princess Shieh she had no time for her relatives, and when Chang reproached her with this one day they quarrelled fiercely and had not spoken to one another since.
Now, hearing her enemy's 75 name mentioned, it seemed to old Wang just the right moment to give full vent to the grudge she had been piling up since the abuse she had been given shortly before by Taste of Spring.
"Probably it was old Chang who smuggled the indecent perfume bag into the park," she whispered to Hsi-feng on the way.
"You must certainly question her."
"No need for you to tell me that; | know it myself," replied Hsi-feng brusquely.
They had now arrived at Greeting of Spring's dwelling.
Greeting of Spring was already asleep, her maids were going to bed, and it was quite a long while before the belated visitors’ knocking was heard and they were admitted.
"The young lady need not be disturbed; let her sleep on," said Hsi-feng, and went straight into the waiting maids' room.
When they had finished turning out and searching the belongings of all the other maids, they came at last to the chess maid's things.
Old Wang, elsewhere so thorough in her searching, was strikingly indulgent and superficial this time; for the chess maid was her own granddaughter.
After she had looked hurriedly through her granddaughter's open trunk, she murmured "Nothing to be found" and was about to close the cover, when the steward's wife, Mrs. Chou Jui, stopped her.
"Now, now!
| don't call that a thorough search!
One must be just!"
she said and began to root in the trunk herself.
And lo and behold, she pulled out a pair of men's padded socks and of men's satin slippers.
And that was not all.
A Jui mascot dagger such as lovers present to each other was found, wrapped in a blue shawl; and a red greeting card, with writing on it.
Chou handed the articles to Hsi-feng.
Now, as manageressof the Yungkuo palace household, Hsi- feng came in touch every day with all sorts of accounts and written documents and so, in the course of time, she had acquired some knowledge of the written language.
She was therefore able to decipher the writing on the card, and to her surprise she read the following: "... now our parents also know how we stand with each other, since your visit of last month, and they approve.
Of course, as long as your young lady is still unmarried, we cannot think of getting married.
If a meeting in the park is possible give me word again through Mother Chang.
It is much easier to talk undisturbed in the park than at home.
Today | duly received the prayer beads made of fragrantly perfumed wood which you sent me.
| send you herewith a perfume bag, the decoration on which indicates my feelings for you.
But put it away carefully !
| wish you peace and bow my head.
"Your cousin Fan."
Hsi-feng was delighted with her discovery.
Here in her hand she had the conclusive evidence which would clear and exonerate her completely in her aunt's eyes.
She could not repress a self-satisfied smile.
"There must be blunders in the account to make the Nai nai laugh?"
asked the illiterate old Wang, doubttully and hesitantly.
"Oh, no, the 'account' is correct, only | had not added it up.
But why does your granddaughter's cousin bear the name of Fan and not your family name of Wang?"
asked 76 Hsi-feng mischievously.
"You probably mean Fan Yo An, who ran away recently?
Certainly he is my granddaughter's cousin; his mother is a Fan by marriage.” When she heard the contents of the supposed "account," which in reality was a love letter addressed to her granddaughter, and noticed the head-shaking around her, old Wang was so confounded and ashamed that she wished the ground could have swallowed her.
She had been out to catch others sinning, and now she and her family were themselves exposed and disgraced.
"Now, what do you Say to this piece of evidence, Mother Wang?
It can't be quibbled or explained away," remarked her colleague Chou Jui, maliciously.
"They meant it well and wanted to spare their grandmother the trouble of negotiating.
At night, when all the birds were silent, they met together," added Hsi-feng, derisively turning to Chou.
She could not delight enough in old Wang's embarrassment.
But the old woman who had been thus disgraced boxed her own ears and cried out in selfabasement that she must certainly have been an old whore in a previous existence, since she had to do such penance now.
Meantime the guilty and convicted chess maid sat there silently with bowed head.
Hsi-feng was disagreeably surprised to observe that her attitude betrayed neither fear nor shame.
She looked on indifferently, sunk in her own thoughts, as if she had already finished with life and would like to kill herself.
Hsi-feng therefore instructed two serving women to take charge of her and not let her out of their sight.
And then, on account of the lateness of the hour, further searches were postponed.
77
CHAPTER 75-76 A sinister occurrence at the nocturnal banquet awakens dark forebodings.
At the Mid-Autumn Festival a new stanza awakens happy promises for the future.
HE PURGE OF THE PARK STAFF WAS INTERRUPTED FOR SEVERAL DAYS because Hsi-feng was ill again, and also because of the Mid-Autumn Festival.
As the period of mourning for the deceased Prince Hermit was not yet over, the festivities were on a smaller scale than usual this time.
Prince Chen had never taken the mourning of his late father very seriously.
As the Rites forbade him diversions outside the house during the months of mourning, he compensated himself by gathering round him every evening, under the pretext of practicing archery, a crowd of aristocratic young rakes with whom he indulged in disgusting orgies of eating and drinking; and the nights passed in dicing and card playing and other frivolous pastimes instead of in the practice of the noble art of archery.
On the fourteenth of the eighth month, the eve of the Mid-Autumn Festival, Prince Chen presided over a family banquet with all the wives and concubines in the Hall of the Green Thicket, which was situated in the Garden of Assembled Perfumes.
To celebrate the day a boar and a ram had been roasted whole.
After the.
meal the company turned to merry drinking and dice playing, at intervals sauntering out to enjoy the sight of the beautiful, clear, full moon.
Then the concubine Wen Hua, who had a fine voice, treated the guests to a song, and the concubine Peh Fong accompanied her on a purple bamboo flute.
The midnight hour, the third beat of the drum, had arrived.
Everyone was in boisterous mood and the Prince was eight-tenths drunk, when suddenly a weird, long-drawn-out groaning was heard, from the direction of the garden wall.
Conversation ceased instantly.
Everyone listened with hair standing on end to the sounds from outside.
"Who is there?"
the Prince called out in a sharp voice.
There was no answer.
"The sound must have come from behind the wall.
Evidently one of the servants is loafing about there," whispered the Princess.
"Nonsense!
The servants’ quarters are much too far away.
Who would have any business at that lonely place near the Hall of Glorification at such an hour?"
said the Prince.
He had not finished speaking when a short, howling gust of wind swept acjoss from over the top of the wall.
At the same time the side doors of the spirit porch in front of the Temple of Ancestors were distinctly heard to open and shut again with a bang.
To the listening company this seemed more uncanny still.
Moreover, the moon appeared to have become overcast and to shine less brightly than before.
Everyone sat there for quite a while, paralyzed with fear, unable to stir.
The Prince was the first to recover himself.
Half his drunkenness and his desire to keep on drinking had disappeared.
In silence he rose from the table and ended the party.
The following day, during the usual Mid-Moon ceremony in the Hall of Glorification he looked around carefully for any traces of the mysterious occurrences of the previous night.
But he 78 could not perceive the slightest change.
On leaving the Hall of Glorification he personally made sure that the entrance was securely locked and bolted after him, but ordered his servants to keep the matter absolutely quiet.
In the evening he went with his wife to the home of the Ancestress to take part in a general family banquet.
The seniors, Prince Shieh and Chia Cheng, had already arrived and were endeavoring to keep the Ancestress in a good humor with jokes.
Beneath the platform of honor, at a respectful distance, the male juniors Chia Lien, Pao-yU, Chia Huan, and Chia Lan stood about, and were allowed to listen to the conversation of the elders.
"How has Pao-yu, been progressing recently in archery?"
the Ancestress asked Prince Chen, who had modestly sat down on the edge of a seat near the door.
"Splendidly," replied Prince Chen, politely jumping up.
"He has not only improved his aim but is also becoming used to weapons of heavier caliber."
"That is good.
But he should not overdo it and exert himself too much.
And by the way, the moon cakes which you sent me taste wonderful; but the melons look better than they taste."
"The moon cakes were made by an expert confectioner whom | got recently for my kitchen.
I, too, find that the melons do not taste so good this season as in past years; | do not know what is the reason."
"Probably it is because the summer was too wet," said Chia Cheng.
"Come, now!
Let us go into the park!
The beautiful, bright full moon is up long since," said the Ancestress; and leaning on Pao-yU,'s shoulder, she led the company to the park gate, hung all over with rams'-horn lanterns.
On the moon terrace in front of the Hall of All Good Spirits a table had been set for an open-air banquet.
The place was festively lighted up with candelabra, the air was scented with the fumes of incense, the ground was covered with carpets and cushions.
First of all the whole company, led by the Ancestress, knelt down on the prayer carpet, washed their hands, bowed to the household deities, and burned incense sticks before their images.
This done, the banquet could begin.
But the Ancestress thought it would be nicer to enjoy the view of the full moon from a more airy height, and she chose as a suitable place the Hall of Blossoms, which was the lookout pavilion situated on top of the near-by Emerald Cone.
The pavilion was made ready in a great hurry.
After resting for a short time, the Ancestress stood up to lead the ascent.
Madame Cheng and the other ladies, afraid that she might miss her footing on the steep, stony, moss- covered pathway, appealed to her to allow herself to be carried up on a sedan chair; but the vigorous old lady, who had celebrated her eightieth birthday only a short time before, insisted on walking up.
The pathways were well tended and in good order, and a little exercise and loosening up of her old bones and sinews could not harm her, she declared, laughing.
Led by Prince Shieh and Chia Cheng, the company moved off.
Two serving women with rams'-horn lanterns lighted the way in front of the Ancestress, who walked along supported by 79 Princess Chen and the waiting maids Yuan Yang and Amber.
At last they reached the summit without mishap, by a path of many windings.
There they sat down on round upholstered seats, which encircled two large round tables separated by a folding screen, which stood on the open terrace in front of the Hall of Blossoms.
The round form had been chosen in honor of the round full moon.
The Ancestress took her seat at one table with the male members of the family, while the ladies occupied the other table completely.
It worried the Ancestress to see a large vacant space at the lower part of the table.
She therefore had the three Spring girls fetched from the ladies’ table behind the folding screen, so that the space would be filled and the guests would form a complete round.
To raise the spirits of the company the Ancestress ordered a merry game with drinks as forfeits.
A branch of cinnamon flowers was passed round the table from hand to hand, while a waiting maid beat a drum behind the folding screen.
Once the drum stopped, the branch was to go no further, and whoever held it in his hand at that moment was sen- tenced to drink a goblet of wine and treat the company to an anecdote.
It happened that the first person in whose hand the branch remained was the stern Chia Cheng.
A surreptitious ripple of giggles, accompanied by much secret tugging of sleeves and nudging of sides, ran around the table.
What humor could.be expected from this solemn- faced person?
But today, for the sake of the Ancestress, Chia Cheng had no wish to be a spoilsport, and he declared himself ready to treat the company to the only anecdote he had in stock.
"But if it does not make us laugh there will be an additional fine," said the Ancestress.
“Agreed.” And Chia Cheng began: "There once lived a man who had a most terrible respect for his wife.
He had only got as far as this when the whole company burst out in loud laughter, forcing him to a brief rhetorical pause.
"Well?"
he said, turning triumphantly to the Ancestress.
"| admit that the story must be splendid since everyone laughs in advance," said the Ancestress, herself shaking with laughter.
"Then it should be your own turn next to drink a glass by way of forfeit," joked Chia Cheng.
"Agreed."
And she tossed off the drink forfeit which Prince Shieh and Chia Cheng, ceremoniously standing side by side, presented to her after tasting it themselves.
As soon as she had drunk it and the two seniors had resumed their seats, Mr. Cheng continued: "Moreover, the said 80 man never dared to stay away from home for long, but once, on the day of the Mid-Autumn Festival, as he was shopping in the town, he chanced to meet a few old friends who induced him to join them in a merry carousal in the house of a mutual friend.
In the end he became so tipsy that he quite forgot about going home, and spent the night with his friend.
The next day, when he was sober again, he appeared before his wife repentant and conscience-stricken.
His wife was just washing her feet.
Having listened to his confession, she said: ‘Just this once | will let you off the thrashing you deserve, but you are to lick my feet as a punishment!’ This he did but immediately started to vomit.
Now she became really angry and was about to thrash him.
So he knelt down beside her and cried: 'Do not' be angry with me, wife.
It really was not your dirty feet but my sour stomach that made me vomit!"
" His story was greeted with general laughter, and the Ancestress consented to take another voluntary forfeit drink.
"Take this as a warning, you married men, and drink only warmed wine!
It is more beneficial than cold wine," she said, amidst a renewed outburst of laughter.
And she ordered punch to be served instead of the cold wine.
On its next round the wandering branch of cinnamon flowers remained in Pao-yU,!s hand.
Because of his father's presence Pao-yu, became terribly embarrassed.
He knew plenty of jokes and anecdotes, but what would his father say?
A bad joke would make his father mock him, but a good joke would make him angry and evoke the reproach that he had ability for jokes and mischief, but none for anything serious.
It would therefore be better not to tell any funny story at all.
So he stood up and declared: "I do not know any jokes or anecdotes.
| therefore beg you to give me another task."
"Very well, then, compose a poem on the subject of autumn!"
ordered Mr. Cheng.
"If the poem is good you will get a reward.
If it is bad, woe betide you!
In that case you will have an examination tomorrow."
"But we only want to pass the time amusing ourselves.
Do not torment him with such difficult tasks!"
protested the Ancestress.
"Let it be !
He will do it all right," replied Chia Cheng with a smile.
So the Ancestress ordered paper, brush, and ink to be brought.
"And do not make use of threadbare phrases such as ‘liquid crystal’ and ‘frozen jasper’ and ‘silver splendor,’ and suchlike!"
said Mr. Cheng severely and emphatically.
"| beg you to be Original!
| wish to test your own ability.” Now, Pao-yu, did not need to ponder long before he had composed his quatrain and put it on paper.
Mr. Cheng read it and merely nodded in silence, which was interpreted by the Ancestress as a good sign.
She eagerly asked his opinion.
"He has made an effort.
But if only he would study history more diligently !
Poetry writing alone does not get one anywhere," was the paternal verdict.
81 "Then it is all right!"
cried the Ancestress, relieved.
"But now you must give him a present to reward and encourage him!"
"Yes, | will do so."
Mr. Cheng turned round and ordered a serving woman to run and get his servants to give her two of the fans which he had brought back with him from his official tour in Hainan.
Before the assembled family he presented them to his son as a mark of approval of his achievement.
Pao-yu, thanked him, striking his forehead on the ground, and returned to his place in better spirits.
A stanza improvised by Chia Lan, the offspring of Mr. Cheng's firstborn son Chu, who had died young, evoked even greater applause.
The Ancestress and Mr. Cheng observed with satisfaction that the ancient inherited fragrance of traditional culture, inherent in the house of Chia, was living on most auspiciously in the younger generation.
Prince Shieh, in whose hand the branch of cinnamon flowers now remained, contributed the following anecdote: "There once was a man who had a very good son.
One day the mother fell ill. AS no doctor could be found, an old woman quack healer was fetched.
T he old woman only knew how to give treatment with the puncturing needle, and she also knew a little about cauterization, but she had no idea of the higher arts of medicine.
She diagnosed the illness as ‘fire in the heart’ and suggested treatment with the puncturing needle.
‘But then, my mother will have to die all the same if her heart is pricked with a sharp needle,’ the son objected in alarm.
'Do not worry, it will only be a matter of a little prick between the ribs,’ the old woman assured him.
'Yes, but then the heart will not benefit from it.
Heaven knows how far away from the ribs the heart is situated,’ the son objected once more.
‘That is all right.
A true mother's heart is so big that it reaches right down to the ribs,’ the quack doctor said, finally reassuring him."
Once more there was merry laughter.
After the bastard Chia Huan had given a test of his ability, which in Mr. Clieng's opinion was a failure, the Ancestress ordered that the game should stop.
The gentlemen might now take their leave and enjoy themselves with their personal friends at the other side.
It was already the hour of the second night watch, and she wished to be alone with the young girls for a while, she said.
As soon as the gentlemen had gone the Ancestress had the folding screen removed and the two tables pushed together.
The ladies then "changed their dresses," washed their hands, rinsed out their mouths with tea, and continued the feast by themselves.
The Ancestress cast her eyes about her and remarked sadly that this year there were many gaps in the circle around the table.
Hsi-feng and the Widow Chu were absent, owing to illness; Pao-ch'ai and Precious Harp had had to stay with Aunt Hsueh, who was also ill. She missed particularly the gaiety which Hsi-feng always contributed to these family gatherings.
"Last year it was more cheerful; true, the men were absent, but we women were all here and 82 Hsi-feng provided enough entertainment for ten.
This time the men were here, but we women are not in full number.
It just shows how difficult it is to have everything one wants at the same time in this world,” she sighed.
In order to raise the spirits of the company she had the little wine glasses replaced by big goblets, with the result that in a short time all present became drowsy from wine, with the exception of the Ancestress.
For none of the ladies present could hold her own with the Ancestress in the matter of drink.
Then she had carpets laid on the terrace steps in front of the Hall of Blossoms and ordered the serving women and maidservants to sit comfortably on the steps and have a good time and enjoy the fruits and dainties which had been distributed to them, for the staff were also to have some part in the banquet.
The moon was now fully risen and was shining if possible more magnificently than before.
"Flute music is just what we want in this glorious moonlight," proposed the Ancestress.
The others wanted to send for a company of young girls with all the instruments necessary to make up a complete band.
“That would be too much of a good thing," objected the Ancestress.
"Too much noise distracts the mind.
| should like to hear only one single, simple flute playing very gently in the distance."
While the company was waiting for the flute-player whom they were expecting, one of Princess Shieh's serving" women came and whispered something in her mistress's ear.
The Prince had stumbled on a stone just now and sprained his foot, the Ancestress was told in reply to | er inquiry.
Thereupon the Ancestress gave the Princess permission to leave the company.
"Niece Chen may go with you at the same time; it is time for her to go home," the Ancestress added.
"Oh, no, | should like to keep our old Ancestress company all night," said Princess Chen.
"You are a nice wife indeed !
Young married people should be in bed on this night!
Do not neglect your wifely duty!"
said the Ancestress with a smile.
"Oh, do not flatter me!
| am already in the forties and have been married to my husband for over twenty years," said the Princess, blushing coyly.
"Besides, we are still in the mourning period.” "You are quite right.
| did not think of that.
Yes, of course it is only two years since your father- in-law died.
How can one be so forgetful!
That will cost me a good, big forfeit drink!
But do stay and keep me company!
Grandniece Yung may accompany my daughter-in-law."
Princess Shieh and young Mistress Chia Yung thereupon took their leave.
The ladies who remained went on drinking and chatting, and at intervals strolled about a little in the moonlight and sniffed the flowering branches of the little cinnamon trees which had been planted around the Hall of the Blossoms, at the same time listening to the clear, gentle tones of a single flute 83 which drifted through the quiet night from the other side of the cinnamon hedge.
There was something so gentle, so liberating, and so refreshing about the music that they all fell into silent rapture and listened spellbound.
"Now, was it not beautiful?"
asked the Ancestress, beaming with pleasure, when the flute- playing ceased.
"Really, it was much more beautiful than we could have imagined,” they all replied with enthusiasm.
"The old Ancestress has certainly shown us how to enjoy art properly.” "Oh, that was nothing very special.
Our songbooks have many more beautiful airs.
Above all, the notes should come over more gentle and more sustained."
The Ancestress had a full goblet of wine taken over to the fluteplayer, together with some requests regarding the program.
Yuan Yang appeared with a warm hood and a waterproof cloak, which she carefully wrapped around the Ancestress.
"It is late night.
Soon the dew will be falling and the air will be getting cooler.
The old Tai tai should go to bed in good time," the waiting maid warned her.
"Do not nag me!"
growled the old lady.
"I am in such good form today !
You do not think, do you.
that | can be bowled over by a little carousal at night?
| will last out until morning."
She had her glass filled again and the feast continued.
Now the single, thin strains ot gentle flute music again penetrated through the darkness of the cinnamon hedge.
This time the melody was so plaintive and so full of feeling that it touched the heart of the Ancestress and made her quite emotional.
"Now | should like to tell you an amusing story," suggested Princess Chen, to cheer her up, as soon as the flute-playing ceased.
"So much the better.
Go right ahead!"
urged the Ancestress, putting on a more cheerful face.
"Then once was a man who had four sons," began the Princess.
"The tirst liad only one eye, the second only one ear, the third only one nostril the fourth had all these parts complete, but he was dumb.
..
."
She stopped because she noticed that the Ancestress had apparently dozed off.
"We should take her to bed," she whispered to Madame Cheng.
"No, no, go on with the story!"
said the Ancestress brightly, opening her eyes.
"I only shut my eyes in order the better to concentrate on the story."
“Tomorrow is another day, and the moon will be shining again then; it is time to go to bed," they advised her gently.
"How late is it, then?"
84 "We are in the fourth night watch.
It is already morning.
The young girls were so tired they could not last it out, and have slipped off."
The Ancestress looked around the table.
The young girls' places were indeed empty.
Only Taste of Spring was still present.
"A flabby lot, they cannot stand anything!"
she murmured.
"Our Taste of Spring deserves praise; she is a brave girl!
But you are quite right; it is time to go to bed."
She took another drink of clear tea, and then she got into a sedan chair made of bamboo basketwork, borne by two strong maids.
But not all the young girls were by any means so soft as the Ancestress had believed them to be.
Instead of remaining to enjoy the moonlit scene from the hilltop, Tai-yU and Little Cloud had gone down below and were enjoying it by the Crystal .Crevice the belvedere built into the rocky wall at the foot of the Emerald Cone, by the brink of the fishpond.
For here they had the additional delight of watching the silvery reflection of the moon playing on the rippling waters.
On the way down the hill they had had a lively literary argument as to whether the two ideographs which had been applied by the experts to the hill and the lake belvedere when the park had been created-namely, the two characters tu, signifying "cone," and wa, signifying "crevice" were admissible from the literary point of view or whether they were inappropriate and should be rejected.
Then they had sat down on two plaited bamboo stools on the open belvedere terrace, and, inspired by the sight of the two moons the one in the sky and the other on the water they had composed between them a long and wonderfully beautiful five-word stanza on the theme of this moonlit night.
They intended next day to surprise and put to shame the other members of the Begonia Club with this nocturnal opus and so to spur the club on to renewed efforts, for unfortunately it had been very inactive for a long time now.
The two were joined later by the beautiful anchoress Miao YU, who, like the rest, was unable to sleep that beautiful night of full moon, and had gone for a stroll through the park.
She had helped the girls with their poetical composition and then taken them to her Kingfisher's Cage hermitage and regaled them with a bowl of her famous wonder tea.
The first crows of the cock were already resounding from the Rice Farm when the two night revellers at last lay down to sleep on the same bed in the Bamboo Hermitage.
When the Mid-Autumn Festival was over and Hsi-feng had more or less recovered, thanks to the lavish use of the best ginseng root, the interrupted purge in the Park of Delightful Vision was resumed once more.
Madame Cheng, having received a report on the recent house-tohouse search, took immediate action.
Grief of Spring's painting maid was taken away from the park and transferred to the eastern palace at her mistress's request, and now Greeting of Spring's 85 chess maid was chased out of the house.
She was forbidden to take leave of her col- leagues and the other inmates of the park with whom she had passed many happy years.
When Pao-yU, whom she had met by chance as she was being chased away, and whom she had implored with tears to intercede for her, tried to get a reprieve, he was given a nasty reception from the grim supervisors of order.
"Off to your books !
This is none of your business!"
they rebuked him, and ruthlessly pushed him aside.
He could not refrain from shouting a few biting words after the troop of departing matrons.
"It is a strange thing,” he cried, "that as soon as you women marry you lose all your womanliness and adopt the bad ways of 'men.
Indeed, you are even worse than men!"
"It seems that young girls are higher beings in your opinion and that men are a bad lot?"
they scoffed back at him.
"Of course," said Pao-yU, nodding eagerly.
"Ha-ha!
Better be off and prepare for a visit from your mother, for your Ch'ing Wen's turn is coming right away!
Today at last we are making a clean sweep, and these witches will be chased away!
Thanks be to Buddha!
Ha-ha!"
Immediately after this Madame Cheng herself arrived at the Begonia Courtyard and turned Ch'ing Wen, whom she detested, out of the house.
Though ill, Ch'ing Wen had to pack up a few belongings and leave the place with her relatives, who had been sent for to take her away.
Pretty Little Fourth suffered the same fate for having been so imprudent as to boast that her birthday fell on the same day as that of her young master.
Three members of the troupe of dancing girls from Suchow, who had stayed on in the park at their request when the troupe was dispersed last year, also met the same fate.
The Tai tai would on no account allow such dangerous "vixens" and "professional seductresses" to remain any longer in the proximity of her son.
The great purge terminated with a strict search of Pao-yu,'s own boxes and trunk-, in the course of which every object which was considered in any way alluring or offensive, and all souvenirs coming from any suspicious source, ruthlessly confiscated.
It may be mentioned that the chief supervisor of order, who was the grandmother of the dismissed chess maid, had herself to put up with a few boxes on the ear from her mistress, Princess Shieh, and had remained invisible afterwards for many days on the plea of being ill. 86
CHAPTER 77-80 The charming maid cannot get over the wrong done her, and dies in the flower of her youth.
The unhappy scion of princes dedicates a funeral hymn to the dead maid.
LAO YU HAD BEEN PREPARED FOR THE ORDEAL OF A HOUSE SEARCH, BUT that Ch'ing Wen, the dearest and most lovable of his waiting maids, should be taken from him this had hit him like a thunderbolt.
After his mother had gone away in bad humor, he threw himself on his bed and gave himself up to his bewildered grief.
"Just be patient for a few days until the 'Tai tai's anger has cooled down, then go to the old Tai tai and beg her to take Ch'ing Wen back into the house, and then everything will be all right again,” said She Yue, trying to comfort him.
"If | only knew what her great crime was," cried Pao-yU, passionately.
"She's too pretty; that's her only crime," replied She Yue, shrugging her shoulders.
"The Tai tai considers so much charm a danger to the peace of the house.
Only ugly, stupid creatures like me are pleasing in her eyes."
"That is quite ridiculous.
There are lots of examples to the contrary in history.
But there's something else bothering me.
How did my mother know word for word certain intimate little things and jesting words that | had exchanged with Ch'ing Wen?
Do you think there has been some spying going on here?"
"No need for that, since you yourself are usually heedless in what you say when you are among people and get warmed up.
| haye warned you again and again with words and looks; but it's no use."
"After all, | have often exchanged familiarities with you, and Hsi Jen, and Ch'iu Wen too; why was it Ch'ing Wen who was pounced upon?"
She Yue made no reply.
"I'm so terribly sorry for her!"
continued Pao-yu, sobbing.
"She has been used to such tender treatment here and now this graceful, delicate orchid, barely opened into bloom, is roughly thrown into the hogs' furnace.
And to make matters worse, she is sick and an orphan.
The only relative she has to fall back upon is an elderly married cousin, an evil drunken creature.
She won't survive a month in the house of that greasy reptile.
| thought to myself that it was an evil omen when | saw this spring how the blooms of our golden begonia had suddenly died in some quite inexplicable way all over one half of the tree.
Now it is clear to me that this bad omen referred to our poor Ch'ing Wen."
She Yue clapped her hands together in astonishment.
"How on earth can an enlightened, educated person like you pay heed to such old wives' superstitions as that?"
she cried, much amused.
87 "People like you certainly cannot understand it," he said reprovingly.
"It is not only mankind that has a soul; all nature is animate too, and at times nature proclaims her unity with man by strange and wondrous manifestations.
To name a few examples, there is the juniper tree in front of the Temple of Confucius in Ku fu; there are the cypresses in front of the tomb of Chu Ko Liang, the wise counsellor of the time of the Three Kingdoms; the pines by the grave of Yo Fei, the great Marshal of the Sung dynasty.
These age-old, indestructible, sacred trees have died down temporarily again and again in the course of the centuries in times of political corruption, only to burst forth in fresh verdure in times of prosperity and order.
And it is probably exactly the same with our begonia."
Half unbelieving, half afraid, She Yue replied: "Those were great men, great figures in history, and your theory may very well apply to them.
But what is Ch'ing Wen?
A little, unimportant creature.
The omen which you believe our golden begonia has shown might just as well, in fact with greater right, apply to me.
Perhaps it really points to my early death?"
Horrified, Pao-yu, put his hand over her mouth.
"Oh, be quiet.
Don't mention a thing like that to me now!
Let's drop the subject.
There is something else that | want to talk to you about.
| am very anxious to send our poor Ch'ing Wen secretly the things she had to leave behind here.
| also want to send her some of the money we have put aside, so that she will be able to pay for a doctor and for some care.
Will you undertake the sisterly service of love?"
"You must have a very poor opinion of me if you think that | had to be asked by you to do that.
| had already thought of it myself and have put all her things away ready in a safe place.
But | wanted to wait until evening.
Now in the daytime there are too many prying eyes in the way.
| will send old Sung; and she shall also take with her the thousandpiece rope of money that | have saved.
For me, a little sacrifice like that is a matter of course, for | have always beena kind, unselfish soul, or haven't I?"
remarked She Yue a trifle bitterly.
"Of course you are a kind soul," said Pao-yu, smiling, and gently stroking her cheeks.
And he tried to drive the coldness from her heart with a few warm words.
So in the evening the serving woman Sung was sent off with the belongings and the money.
Before that Pao-yU, himself set out to pay Ch'ing Wen a secret visit.
None of his servants was allowed to accompany him, and no one was permitted to leave the Begonia Courtyard that evening.
Having reached the back gate of the park, he prevailed upon the portress on guard there to show him the way to Ch'ing Wen's home, after much ado.
The portress, who was afraid of losing her job and at first did not want to help him, gave in in the end when he promised her money.
When her parents had died Ch'ing Wen had been bought as a small child by the house steward, Lai Ta.
Lai Ta's wife had later given her as a present to the Princess Ancestress, who had taken a fancy to the pretty little ten-year-old.
Her cousin, Little Kwei, had been married off by Lai Ta to a sly little coquette, who deceived her blockhead husband in every 88 conceivable way.
The servants of her master Lai Ta were always after her like flies after a stink.
From the time Ch'ing Wen had been serving Pao-yu, this girl had been always pestering her to put in a word for her with Hsi-feng; she wanted a post as serving woman in the Yungkuo palace.
At last she and her husband were allowed to live near the back gate of the park and were employed by Hsi-feng personally for all sorts of profitable errands and orders.
They did not make much of a fuss over poor sick Ch'ing Wen.
She was put out of the way ina back room and left to herself for the greater part of the day.
Having reached his destination, Pao-yu, left the old woman at the house door to watch out, and went alone into Ch'ing Wen's room.
He found her lying, half asleep on a wretched bed of rush matting.
Luckily, she had at least got a few cushions and a blanket from her former possessions to cover her.
Pao-yu, plucked her sleeve and called her softly by name.
Half frightened, half pleased, she blinked at him with eyes that had grown dull.
"Oh, it's you!
| thought | would never see you again," she gasped, convulsively drawing his hand up to her.
When she had got over a fit of coughing, she continued: "By Buddha!
You have come just at the right time.
For hours | have been gasping for a drink of tea, but there was no one near.
Do please pour me out half a bowl!"
"Where's the teakettle?"
he asked, wiping his eyes.
"It's there on the edge of the stove."
Pao-yu, looked around.
So this filthy, rusty pot with the coal-black spout was the teapot?
He picked up a dirty bowl, the only one he could find on the table.
It had a nasty smell of rancid mutton fat.
Shaking his head and with tears in his eyes, he washed it and then dried it with one of his silk handkerchiefs.
Then he filled it half full from the black iron pot.
So this cloudy, dark red brew was supposed to be tea?
He tasted the bitter muck, and was overcome with nausea.
It cut him to the heart to see how the sick girl greedily gulped down the contents of the bowl in one swallow, as if it were the sweetest dew from heaven.
"Have you anything else to say to me?"
he urged.
"If you have, make the best of this moment that we're alone."
"What else would | have to say to you?"
she sighed.
"I'm just dragging myself on from day to day.
As things are going with me, | shall be over it all in three to five days.
The only thing that is weighing on me is the thought that | am dying under a shadow.
| may indeed have been prettier than the others, but to say that | was a seductress, a dangerous vixen no, | didn't deserve that.
| will not quarrel with the past, but perhaps it would have been better if | had never..." Her breath failed her and she could speak no longer.
Pao-yu, perceived with a shock how cold her hands were.
He felt as if his heart had been pierced with a thousand arrows.
He anxiously rubbed her hands and patted her body lightly.
How emaciated she had grown!
It shook him to see how four silver bracelets rattled loosely around her skinny wrists.
89 "Take them off and wear them again when you're well once more and have filled out a bit!"
he begged her in an agitated voice.
Ch'ing Wen suddenly raised her clenched left hand to her lips and with a great effort bit off two of her fingernails.
She laid them in Pao-yu,'s hand.
He hid them in his belt pocket.
Now she slid her right hand under the blanket, drew off the short reel silk petticoat which she still wore from better days, and handed it to Pao-yU, as a further souvenir.
Then, exhausted by the twofold exertion, she sank back, groaning.
Guessing her thoughts, Pao-yU, hurriedly removed his own shirt, spread it over her naked body, and put her garment on himself instead of it.
In great haste, and without waiting to do up all the buttons, he dressed himself again.
"Lift me up so that | can sit!"
she asked him in a dull voice, while he was still dressing.
Alas, Pao-yu, had little trouble in lifting up her light, emaciated body.
Now, sitting up, she pulled his shirt from under the bedclothes and put it on with great difficulty, with Pao-yU,'s assistance.
Then he let her sink back gently OP her pillows again.
"Now go!"
she said.
"It ie horrible for you here in this filthy room.
| am glad that you have come once more.
Now | shall die happy."
She was about to say something more when the cloth curtain of the door Was pushed aside, and Little Kwei's wife walked in with a lewd smile on her face.
"Ha-ha!
This is a nice conversation you've been carrying on here!
I've seen and heard everything!"
she said.
"Now, what brings the highborn young gentleman into my humble dwelling?
No doubt he wants to have a look at me and to try out his arts on my youthful charms, eh?"
"Hush!
Not so loud, good elder sister!"
he pleaded, much embarrassed.
"No one must know that I'm here.
| just wanted to see Ch'ing Wen.
She served me faithfully for a long time."
Smiling, she took him by the hand and drew him with her into her bedroom.
"You are surely a lady's man, all the world knows that!
Very well, then, if you want me to keep my mouth shut you must show me a little favor."
And with this she sat down on the edge of the bed and drew him close against her, crushing him between her thighs.
Nothing like this had ever happened to him before.
He flushed a hot crimson.
"Don't do that!"
he gasped in confusion.
"Pah!
Don't pretend!"
she said, with an ugly look.
"You're crazy for women and girls, aren't you?
So why so shy now?"
"Leave me alone!
What if the old woman who brought me over here should see me?
We can't do it now.
We'll arrange for some other time."
"Oh, there's no fear we'll be seen.
| have sent the old woman away already.
She's waiting for 90 you in front of the park gate.
Now let me repeat: Either you do what | want or I'll raise a row and betray you, and then your Tai tai will hear what a crazy fellow you are.
| was listening just now under the window of the room and | saw the familiar and intimate goings-on you had with Ch'ing Wen.
I'm no fool!"
She began to open the waistband of his trousers and to lift up her own dress.
Pao-yU, resisted with all his strength and struggled to free hi~aself from her embrace.
In the middle of the fierce struggle, a voice was heard outside saying: "Does Sister Ch'ing Wen live here?"
Little Kwei's wife started up in alarm and let her prisoner free.
"She's here!"
she cried, running up to the window.
Out in the yard stood the servant Liu with her little daughter.
She had been sent by the serving woman Sung to bring Ch'ing Wen the belongings she had left behind and She YUe's rope of a thousand coins.
While she was stating her errand and being shown into Ch'ing Wen's room by the woman, through the window of the next room she caught a glimpse of a male form.
As she was well aware of the character of Kwei's wife, she assumed she had one of her lovers in there, and thought no more of the matter.
But her keen-eyed little girl had already recognized the shadowy form as Pao-yu,.
"Wasn't Miss She YUe looking for the little master just now?
He's in there," she whispered to her mother, as they went away.
The woman Liu stopped and looked inquiringly at the wife of Little Kwei.
"Of course he's not.
What would the little master want with me?"
she lied.
She was burning to resume and carry to victory the interrupted contest with Pao-yu, but Pao-yU, frustrated her intention.
Two things drove him out of his hiding place: the fear, on the one hand, that he would get back late and find the park gates closed, and, on the other, the dread of a renewed attack by the lusting woman.
"Hi, Godmother Liu, wait a minute and | will be with you!"
he cried, suddenly emerging from under the door curtain, after Liu had already turned to go.
"Oh.
so there's our little master!
What brings you here?"
asked the Liu woman, utterly astonished.
Pao-yU, wasted no time in long explanations, but slipped past her out the door.
Mother Liu and her daughter raced along after him, while Little Kwei's wife was left standing at the door with a long face, bewailing her beautiful, vanished dream.
Out of breath and with fast-beating heart, Pao-yU, arrived back at the park in the nick of time before the gates were shut and reached the Begonia Courtyard without being seen by the evening patrols of park watchwomen.
He had come from Aunt Hsueh, he told She Yue, and went straight to bed.
"Are you going to bed so early?"
asked She Yle.
91 "That's my own business,” he retorted brusquely.
Mindful of her dignity and of her responsibility to the Ancestress and to Madame Cherg, She Yue had become somewhat more reserved in her demeanor towards Pao-yU, for the past few years, and she had also become somewhat estranged from him.
The place in his heart which she had occupied previously she had lost in the course of time to her junior, Ch'ing Wen.
Ch'ing Wen it was, too, who had the privilege of sleeping in his bedroom, for Pao-yU, was afraid of being alone at night and had to have someone near him with whom he could exchange a few words now and then when he could not sleep.
Since Ch'ing Wen had gone She Yue had resumed this nocturnal position of trust once more.
That night she heard him tossing about restlessly in his bed for a long time, and heaving sighs, short and long, before he fell asleep.
Then, towards midnight, when she herself was just nodding off, she heard him calling loudly for Ch'ing Wen.
"What's wrong?"
she asked.
He asked for tea.
"Ah.
it's you, She Yue," he said, embarrassed, with an apologetic smile, when she brought him the tea.
"I called for the other girl through absent-mindedness and habit."
"When she was new here you used togo on calling for me in your sleep; that's how times change,” remarked She Yue with an air of resignation.
He went to sleep again only after two hours of tossing and turning.
It was getting towards five in the morning when Ch'ing Wen appeared to him in a dream.
"I've come to bid you good-by," she said.
"Farewell!"
and disappeared once more.
He leaped out of bed terrified and woke She YUe.
"Ch'ing Wen has just died," he told her dully.
She Yue did not believe him and tried to talk him out of his “hallucination,” but he held firmly to his belief and could hardly wait for the morning to send for news of Ch'ing Wen.
And he had to hold his soul in patience until the afternoon before he got definite news.
For he, his half-brother Chia Huan, and his nephew Chi a Lan had to spend the whole day in the company of the stern father and various worthy seniors.
There was an inspection of chrysanthemums, and on this occasion the juniors were required once more to show their literary ability.
The test passed off to the satisfaction of Mr. Cheng, and after it Pao-yU, was able to display proudly to his grandmother and mother the trophies with which the various worthy seniors had honored him three fans, three prayer chaplets with sandalwood beads, three jade rings, and a little carved sandalwood Buddha as an amulat to wear on the breast.
On his way back to the Begonia Courtyard he was accompanied by his two waiting maids She Yueh and Ch'iu Wen as well as two younger assistant waiting maids.
On the pretext of making them go on ahead with his writing equipment, and his cap and festive outer garments which he had taken off on account of the heat, he had got rid of the two elder girls because he did not want to make them jealous by inquiring about Ch'ing Wen.
92 He pretended he wanted to stroll for a while in the park, then, finding a somewhat secluded little place among the rocks, he took the two younger girls aside to cross-examine them.
"Did She Yue send over this morning to Ch'ing Wen?"
he asked.
"Yes, she sent old Sung over," replied one of the girls.
"What news did she bring back?"
™Ch'ing Wen kept crying out the whole night, then towards morning she shut her eyes and lost consciousness."
"Whom was she calling for?"
"For her mother."
"For anyone else?"
"| don't know."
"Ah, you silly thing.
| suppose you didn't listen attentively."
"That's right.
She only half listened," the other chimed in eagerly.
She was rather more intelligent than the other and guessed the reason for his urgent questioning.
"I know a lot more, and | know it firsthand too."
"How is that?"
"| went over to her secretly at noon today.
She was always so good to us younger ones, and | was sorry that she was treated so unjustly.
| wanted to see her once more, for friendship's sake.
| would have willingly taken the beating I'd have got if I'd been discovered.
When | went in she opened her eyes and caught hold of my hand, and asked at once for you, young master.
Where were you, was her first question.
| said you had gone with your father to the display of chrysanthemums.
At this she sighed and said: That's a pity; then | shall never see him again.'
| said to her she should be patient for a bit, as you'd surely come to see her again.
She shook her head and smiled and replied that today at exactly two quarters after the first half of the double hour of the sheep she would have to take up the vacant position of a flower spirit at the command of the Nephrite Emperor, but that you would come home a bit later than that, and therefore she could not see you again.
She said she was not to be one of the damned whose souls the Prince of Hell, Wen Wang, sends his little devils to fetch, and who try to buy an hour's reprieve of their wretched existence by bribing the mercenary messengers of hell with sacrifices of food and paper money.
No, she would be solemnly carried before the throne of the Emperor of Heaven by good spirits, and she did not wish to be late on any account in getting there.
| did not believe her, but when she drew her last breath a little while afterwards | found her words confirmed by the clock in the next room.
The hand pointed exactly to two quarters after the first half of the double hour of the sheep just the time that she had foretold."
93 Pao-yU, nodded earnest assent.
"If you were acquainted with our literature, you would knowtthat there really is such a thing.
Every single flower has its spirit, and over the spirits of each kind of flower there is set, again, a higher spirit.
Only | would very much like to know to which species of flowers she is attached, and whether as an ordinary spirit or as a higher spirit."
The girl to whom his question was addressed was not long at a loss for an answer.
It occurred to her that now, in the eighth month, the water lilies were just in bloom.
"| asked her about that too," she fibbed boldly and bravely.
"I told her that we would like to know, so that we could give our special loving care to her species of flowers in future.
Then she told me that she had been appointed upper guardian spirit of our water lilies in the park.
But | would not like to betray that to anyone but you, young master."
Pao-yu, let his gaze wander across to the water lilies in the near-by pond, and his sorrowful face brightened.
"She has been given a worthy and a beautiful office.
To live on in that way, after having passed safely through the Sea of Bitterness, is indeed a happy fate," he murmured, comforted.
Feeling the urge to pay the dead girl the honor due to her, on her bier, he set out, unaccompanied, to go to the house of mourning by the usual secret way through the back gate of the park.
He found the house empty and locked.
Little Kwei's wife, hoping for a small subscription towards the burial, had gone off to the Yungkuo palace immediately after Ch'ing Wen's death, and brought word of it to Madame Cheng.
Madame Cheng had given her ten ounces of silver, but with the condition that, instead of keeping the dead girl for the usual period laid out on a bier in the house of mourning, they should take her outside the city walls and cremate her forthwith.
For Ch'ing Wen had died of consumption of the lungs and Madame Cheng was afraid that some harmful influence might spread to the Yungkuo palace if the corpse were in its vicinity for a long time.
So it happened that Little Kwei and his wife were already on their way to the city walls with the coffin when Pao-yu, arrived; he had, therefore, to go home again without achieving his object.
He was deeply depressed and felt an urge to seek distraction in Tai-yU's company, but when he arrived at the Bamboo Hermitage he was told that Tai-yU had gone to Pao-ch'ai.
He now set out for the Jungle Courtyard.
He found it lonely and abandoned and Pao-ch'ai's rooms empty and dismantled.
He then remembered having heard that Pao-ch'ai wished to leave the park and retur i to her mother.
Recent events in the park had made an unpleasant impression on her and, moreover, she did not wish to expose herself to the painful possibility of another house search.
Hsi-feng and Madame Cheng had both tried in vain to persuade her to stay, but she had remained firm and, on the excuse of being indispensable to her mother, who was in poor health, she had meantime carried out her intention.
94 A sorrowful feeling of utter desolation crept over Pao-yu,.
He saw the number of his intimate companions dwindling little by little.
How would it be if She Yue or Tai-yu were to die next?
With a heavy heart he wandered back to the Bamboo Hermitage, but still Tai-yu was not there.
So desolate did he ‘feel that he was almost glad now to be called away again to his father and the seniors.
The session of poetic composition occasioned by the chrysanthemum show, which had been interrupted by the luncheon interval, was to be resumed now.
When he returned to the park in the hour of yellowish twilight and passed by the pond with its water lilies in bloom, his thoughts turned once more to the dead girl, Ch'ing Wen.
He stopped at the edge of the pond, looking out at the water lilies and sighing.
It had been denied him to offer sacrifice and intone a dirge at her bier, as would have been proper.
Should he not make good his omission here, in the sight of the water lilies?
This idea passed through his mind.
And as his muse had already been stirred by the literary activity of the day, he asked the little maid who was carrying behind him "the four precious articles of the writing table" to hand him his writing brush and ink-stone.
And there and then he composed a long hymn, which he named "Funeral Hymn to the Water-Lily Maiden,” and wrote it down on a piece of that fine, wavy, ribbed silk which Ch'ing Wen had so loved.
Meantime the little maid had to fetch eating bowls containing four of Ch'ing Wen's favorite dishes, and stand them one on top of the other by the edge of the pond, as an offering to the dead.
Pao-yU, weeping, read his hymn aloud, then burned incense, and placed the sheet of silk with the hymn among the leaves of the nearest water lily within reach.
Darkness was already falling when at last, the entreaties of the little maid, he tore himself away from the scene of this strange act of homage to the departed.
95
