Chapter 73 A Foolish Maid by Chance Picks up a Pornographic Pouch A Timid Young Lady ignores the Loss of Her Gold Phoenix Tiara Concubine Zhaos conversation with Jia Zheng was interrupted by a crash outside.
Upon inquiry they found that one of the shutters of the outer room, not being properly secured, had clattered to the ground.
Concubine Zhao reprimanded the maids and got them to fix it in place, then helped Jia Zheng to bed.
Meanwhile, in Happy Red Court, Baoyu had just gone to bed and his maids were thinking of turning in themselves when someone knocked at the gate.
An old woman opened it to admit Xiaoque, a girl working for Concubine Zhao, who would not state her business but went straight in to find Baoyu already in bed, with Qingwen and some other maids sitting chatting beside him.
Whats happened?
they asked.
What brings you here at this hour?
Addressing herself to Baoyu, Xiaoque announced, Ive got some news for you.
Just now my mistress was talking to Lord Zheng and I heard your name.
So look out tomorrow if he sends for you.
This said, she turned to leave.
Xiren urged her to stay for some tea, but for fear that the Garden gate would be closed she went off.
Baoyu instantly felt as distraught as Monkey King on hearing the incantation to tighten the magic band around his head.
Staggered, he racked his brains but could think of no way out except to cram in readiness for a test the following day.
He fancied that if he could give correct answers from his books, other lapses would be overlooked and he might muddle through.
Throwing a jacket round his shoulders he got up to study, thinking remorsefully, I was sure he wouldnt test me these first few days, so I let things slide and got rusty.
If Id known, Id have done some revising every day.
Now, the only ones of the Four Book he knew by heart together with the commentaries were the Great Learning, the Doctrine of the Mean and the Analects.
His knowledge of the first half of Mencius was so sketchy that if suddenly give one sentence from it he would be unable to recite what followed, and the whole of the second half had slipped his mind.
When it came to the Five Classics, while writing poems himself he had browsed quite often through the Book of Songs and if questioned on that should be able to get by.
It did not matter that he had forgotten the rest, as his father had never told him to study them.
As for classical prose, in the past few years he had read several dozen works including the Zuo Annals, Anecdotes of the Warring States, the commentaries of Gongyang and Guliang, and some writings of the Han and Tang dynasties no more than a few score works in all but he was quite unable to quote from them, for he had only glanced at them when at a loose end and in the mood.
Never having studied them hard, he had since forgotten them and if tested on them now would be floored.
Then there were the fashionable eight-section essays which he had always loathed, taking the view that as these were not written by sages or worthies they could not expound the wisdom of sages or worthies and were simply ladders by which later examination candidates climbed up to bureaucratic advancement.
Jia Zheng before his departure had set him over a hundred essays of this kind to study.
Baoyu had skipped through these, noting here and there a well-written paragraph or argument or certain digressions, amusing anecdotes or poignant sentiments.
But this again was only when the mood took him.
He had never given his mind to studying whole essays.
If he prepared one now, tomorrow he might be examined on quite another and it was out of the question to revise the whole lot in one night.
These reflections made him more and more frantic.
While Baoyu was dilly-dallying over his studies, none of the girls in his place could go to bed either.
It goes without saying that his chief maids Xiren, Sheyue and Qingwen trimmed candles and poured tea for him.
The younger ones, however, were all so sleepy that they kept dozing off.
Little bitches!
Qingwen scolded.
You all sleep like the dead every day are you so short of sleep that you cant even sit up late for once?
If you drowse off again Ill jab you with a needle.
Just then they heard a thump in the outer room and rushing out to look found that one young maid, falling asleep in her chair, had banged her head on the wall.
She woke up with a start to hear this scolding and in her dazed state imagined that Qingwen had struck her.
Good sister, she cried tearfully, I promise not to do it again!
The others burst out laughing.
Dont punish her, put in Baoyu hastily.
You should have sent them all to bed.
And you must be tired yourselves.
Youd better take it in turns to get some sleep.
Just get on with your work, Little Ancestor, urged Xiren.
Youve only this one night so give your mind to those books for the time being.
Youll have plenty of time once youve passed this test to attend to other things.
As she spoke in such earnest Baoyu had to comply.
He went on reading.
But presently when Sheyue poured him more tea to moisten his throat, he noticed that she was wearing a short jacket but had taken off her skirt.
Its cold so late at night, he warned.
You should put on a gown.
With a smile she pointed at his books.
Just forget us for the moment and concentrate on those.
At this point Venturina dashed in through the back door declaring excitedly that someone had just jumped down from the top of the wall.
Gracious!
Where?
cried the others.
At once they called people out to search everywhere.
Qingwen saw how wearisome Baoyu found this cramming, and knew that if he wore himself out tonight he was likely to make a poor showing the next day.
She had been wanting to find some way out for him and this alarm provided her with a pretext.
Take this chance to sham ill, she advised him.
Just pretend youve had a fright.
Baoyu snatched eagerly at this suggestion.
The matrons on night duty were summoned to search everywhere with lanterns.
When they failed to find anyone they said, The girls, going out half asleep, must have taken some branches tossed by the wind for a man.
Stop farting!
retorted Qingwen.
Youre trying to shift the blame for not making a proper search.
More than one person saw someone break in.
Some of us had gone out with Baoyu, and we all saw it.
It gave him such a fright that he turned white and now hes feverish.
Im going to the mistress to get a sedative for him, and when she asks whats happened Ill have to report it in full.
So how can you give up searching?
At this the matrons dared not raise any further objections.
They made a more thorough search while Qingwen and Venturina went off to fetch medicine, loudly spreading the news that Baoyu had fallen ill as a result of a shock.
At once Lady Wang sent some of her own attendants to give him medicine, besides ordering those on night duty to search every nook and cranny of the Garden and check on the men on duty at the inner gate outside it.
So they ransacked the Garden all night with lanterns and torches, and when dawn came the stewards were instructed to make careful investigations.
They questioned all the matrons and men-servants who had been on night duty.
When the Lady Dowager heard of Baoyus fright and asked the reason they dared not hide it from her.
I guessed as much, said the old lady.
It shows how careless they are on the night watch nowadays.
And whats more serious is that some of them may even be thieves themselves.
You can never tell.
Lady Xing and Madam You had come over to pay their respects and were waiting on her with Xifeng, Li Wan and the girls.
They all remained silent after this remark until Tanchun stepped forward.
Its true that with Cousin Xifeng unwell the servants in the Garden have become much more disorderly, she said.
At first, they used to gather in threes or fours to dice or play cards for small stakes in their spare time, or to keep themselves awake when on night duty.
But recently theyve grown bolder.
Theyve actually formed gambling clubs with someone acting as banker, and the stakes are as high as thirty, fifty or a hundred strings of cash.
A fortnight ago they even started a fight.
If you knew this why didnt you report it before?
demanded the old lady.
As Her Ladyship was busy and out of sorts and Cousin Xifeng was ill, I just told my sister-in-law and the stewardesses.
I also reprimanded the servants several times, and lately theyve behaved better.
You unmarried young girls cant be expected to know how serious this is.
To you gambling is nothing much youre only afraid that it may lead to quarrels.
But this gambling night after night leads to drinking and unlocking the gates to buy this, that and the other or send to look for someone.
At the dead of night when few people are about, thieves may hide themselves there and debauchees and bandits can easily be smuggled in, and then anything could happen!
Besides, in those places where you girls live in the Garden the maids are a mixed lot, some good and some bad.
Pilfering isnt of much consequence, but if worse trouble came of it there could be a scandal!
This isnt something we can pass over lightly.
After this harangue Tanchun resumed her seat in silence.
Xifeng, though not fully recovered, was feeling a little better today.
Having heard what the old lady said, she remarked, Its too bad my falling ill again at this time.
She sent at once to summon Lin Zhixiaos wife and three other stewardesses in charge of the maids and reprimanded them in the presence of the Lady Dowager, who ordered them to fetch the culprits forthwith, promising rewards to those who voluntarily gave information and threatening to punish any who withheld it.
Seeing how angry she was, Mrs. Lin and the others dared not shelter their friends.
They hurried to the Garden to summon and question all the servants in turn.
Though at first everyone denied ever having gambled, in the end inevitably they arrived at the truth there were three main bankers, eight minor ones, and more than twenty people involved in the gaming.
Haled before the Lady Dowager they all knelt down in the courtyard, kowtowing to beg for mercy.
First she ascertained the names of the chief bankers and the sums of money involved.
One was no other than a relative of Lin Zhixiao another was the younger sister of Mrs. Lin the cook in the Garden the third was Yingchuns nurse.
These three were the ring-leaders.
The rest need not be enumerated here.
The Lady Dowager ordered all the dice and cards to be burned and all the winnings confiscated and distributed among the other servants.
The chief culprits were given forty strokes of the bastinado apiece then dismissed from service, with orders never to set foot there again.
Their followers received twenty strokes apiece, were fined three months wages and demoted to clean the privies.
Lin Zhixiaos wife was also reprimanded.
Her relatives disgrace mortified Mrs. Lin, and Yingchun too was embarrassed.
Daiyu, Baochai and Tanchun sympathizing with her rose to beg the old lady to forgive her nurse.
That nanny never used to gamble, they pleaded.
She must have been drawn in accidentally.
Do let her off for Cousin Yingchuns sake.
You dont understand, said the Lady Dowager.
Those nannies are privileged because they nursed you.
As a result theyre worse than anyone else when it comes to making trouble, setting their mistresses against each other and covering up the faults of their favourites.
Ive experience enough of that.
Ive been meaning to make an example of one of them and now, luckily, shes presented me with the chance.
So dont interfere.
I know what Im doing.
Then Baochai and the others could say no more.
Presently the old lady lay down to have a nap and the others withdrew but knowing how angry she was they did not go straight home.
Madam You chatted for a while in Xifengs place, and when Xifeng looked tired she left to pass the time with the girls in the Garden.
Lady Xing after sitting a little with Lady Wang decided to take a stroll in the Garden too.
She had just reached the gate when Sister Numskull, one of the Lady Dowagers maids, came along chortling to herself over some gaudy object in her hands, and as her head was lowered bumped into Lady Xing.
She looked up then and halted.
What outlandish toy have you got there that youre so pleased, silly creature?
asked Lady Xing.
Let me see it.
This Sister Numskull, who was fourteen or fifteen, had recently been chosen to do rough jobs fetching water or sweeping the yard for the Lady Dowager.
She was plump with a round face and big feet, a good, fast worker.
And being ignorant and simple-minded she behaved and talked quite unconventionally.
Since the old lady liked her rough-and-ready ways and her ability to make people laugh, she gave her the nickname Numskull and when she felt bored would make fun of her, letting her behave in any way she liked.
For this reason she also called Numskull her crazy maid.
So when the girl did anything wrong no one took her to task for it, knowing the old ladys partiality to her.
And this emboldened her when she was free to go and play in the Garden.
Today she had been catching crickets there when she saw behind a rock a gaily embroidered sachet.
It was exquisitely made and very charming, but on it in place of the usual flowers or birds were two naked figures locked in embrace, and on the other side some characters.
Not knowing that this was pornography the silly girl wondered, Are these two monsters fighting?
Or maybe a husband and wife tussling together?
Unable to make it out she had started back, chuckling to herself, to show it to the Lady Dowager.
In reply to Lady Xings question she said Yes, this really is very strange, madam.
Do have a look.
She handed her the pouch.
One glance at it so horrified Lady Xing that she clutched it tight.
Where did you find this?
Behind a rock when I was catching crickets.
Mind you dont tell anybody!
Its something very wicked.
Youd be beaten to death for picking it up if you werent such a fool.
But you mustnt mention it to anyone else.
Numskull turned pale with fright.
I wont!
she promised, then kowtowed several times and went off quite bewildered.
Lady Xing looked round and saw some girls about.
She stuffed the pouch into her sleeve to conceal it from them, wondering where it could have come from, then hiding her consternation went on to see Yingchun.
Yingchun was vexed and depressed by her nurses disgrace.
When Lady Xing was announced she invited her in and tea was served.
Youre no longer a child, scolded Lady Xing.
Why didnt you take your nurse to task for carrying on in that way?
Other peoples servants dont misbehave, only ours how do you account for that?
Yingchun lowered her head to play with her sash.
I did speak to her twice but she paid no attention, she muttered after a pause.
What more could I do?
Besides, shes my nanny.
Its for her to scold me, not for me to speak sharply to her.
Nonsense.
If you do wrong, of course she should pull you up but when she breaks the rules like this you should assert your authority as mistress.
If she wouldnt obey you, why not report it to me?
Once outsiders hear about this what fools we shall look!
Another thing, to raise money for her bank I daresay she wheedled you, soft and spineless as you are, into lending her some trinkets and clothes to pawn.
If shes swindled you I havent a cent to help you redeem your trinkets and clothes for the coming festival.
Yingchun, her head lowered, just fingered her clothes in silence.
Lady Xing laughed scornfully.
Your fine brother and sister-in-law, Master Lian and Madam Lian, are high and mighty.
They control this household and run everything but pay no attention to you, their only younger sister.
If you were a child of my own and discriminated against, thered be nothing we could do about it.
Yet youre not my own child.
But even though you and Lian didnt have the same mother, at least you have the same father so he ought to show a little consideration instead of making people laugh at you.
Its a mystery to me the way things turn out.
Your mother was Lord Shes concubine, Tanchuns mother Lord Zhengs concubine, and by rights you two should have the same status.
When your mother was alive she was ten times better than Concubine Zhao, so you should be superior to Tanchun.
How come, then, youre not half as good?
Isnt it strange?
Well, Im thankful Ive no children of my own to make a laughing-stock of me.
Some servants waiting on them interposed, Our young ladys good-hearted and honest, not like Miss Tanchun who talks so glibly and likes to score off her cousins.
She knows very well how it is with our young mistress but never shows the least concern for her.
What can you expect when her own brother and sister-in-law treat her like that?
Just then the arrival of Xifeng was announced.
Lady Xing snorted.
Ask her to go back and rest to get over her illness.
I dont need her services here.
Then another maid came to report that the old lady had woken up, whereupon Lady Xing took her leave.
Now whats to be done?
asked Xiuju when Yingchun came back from seeing off Lady Xing.
The other day I told you, miss, that gold filigree phoenix tiara inlaid with pearls was missing, but you wouldnt even ask what had happened to it.
When I said nanny must have pawned it to raise money for gambling, you didnt believe me and told us to ask Siqi where she had put it.
I did.
And though she was ill she remembered quite distinctly that it hadnt been put away but left in a case on the bookshelf for you to wear during the Moon Festival.
You should have asked nanny about it, only youre too soft and afraid of offending people.
Now its missing, wont it look odd if youre the only young lady not wearing one tomorrow?
There was no need to ask, said Yingchun.
Of course she took it to tide her over.
I thought shed smuggled it out and would smuggle it back again in a day or two, but apparently she forgot.
Its no use asking her now that shes in trouble.
How could she have forgotten?
She knows you too well and was simply taking advantage of you, miss.
Ive just had an idea.
Why not let me go and report this to Madam Lian?
She can either send to demand it back or just get it out of hock for her with a few strings of cash.
What do you think?
Dont do that, demurred Yingchun hastily.
Lets not make any fuss.
Id rather lose it than stir up more trouble.
How can you be so soft, miss?
protested Xiuju.
If youll never stand up for your rights, some day youll be spirited away yourself!
Better let me go.
She started off and Yingchun had no way to stop her.
Now the wife of Wang Zhu the old nurses son had come to beg Yingchun to intercede for her mother-in-law, but she stayed outside when she heard this talk about the gold phoenix tiara.
Yingchun was so weak that none of the servants were afraid of her.
If Xiuju reported this to Xifeng, however, it would be serious.
So Mrs. Wang came in, with an ingratiating smile, to make her appeal.
First she begged Xiuju,Please dont go, miss, to stir up trouble.
My mother-in-law, being old and muddle-headed, borrowed your young ladys phoenix tiara because shed lost some money and had no means of winning it back.
She meant to redeem it in a day or two, but she didnt recoup her losses and that delayed her.
Then, as ill luck would have it, someone told tales and landed her in trouble.
Still, we cant keep something belonging to your mistress.
Well redeem it without fail.
She turned to Yingchun.
Do us a favour, miss.
As she nursed you at her breast when you were small, go and ask the old lady to let your old nanny off.
Its out of the question, sister, replied Yingchun.
Even if I pleaded for a year it wouldnt be any use.
Just now Cousin Baochai, Cousin Daiyu and the other girls tried to beg her off, but the old lady wouldnt hear of it.
How much more could I do alone?
Besides Ive been humiliated enough.
Why should I go asking for another snub?
Xiuju put in, Redeeming the tiara and asking a favour are two quite different things.
Dont mix them up.
Or do you mean you wont give it back if our young lady doesnt get her off?
Go and fetch the tiara first.
Yingchuns refusal and Xiujus taunt left Wang Zhus wife at a momentary loss.
Then, in her mortification, she took advantage of Yingchuns good temper to round on her maid.
Dont be so smug, miss!
she cried.
In all the different young masters and mistresses households, which nurse or nanny doesnt get certain perks.
Why expect us to be so scrupulous?
Are you maids the only ones allowed to filch things on the sly?
After Lady Xings niece came here, Her Ladyship ordered us to save one tael of silver a month for her sister-in-law so here we are spending more on Miss Xiuyan while getting one tael less.
And when youre short of this or that we have to provide it.
Who goes to ask for more money?
We just make do somehow.
Were out of pocket by at least thirty taels.
Now it seems weve been spending our money all for nothing... Not waiting for her to finish, Xiuju spat in disgust.
On what have you spent thirty taels for us?
Lets work it out.
What has our young lady asked you for?
As the woman had cast aspersions on Lady Xing.
Yingchun hastily interrupted, Thats enough.
If you cant produce my tirara, at least dont drag in other things and raise this rumpus.
I dont want that tiara.
If Their Ladyships ask about it Ill tell them Ive lost it, so as not to involve you.
Better go back and rest now.
She told Xiuju to bring her some tea.
Instead the girl exploded, You may not mind, miss, but how about us who are supposed to be looking after you?
After filching your things they even accuse you of sponging on them and want their money back!
If Her Ladyship asks you why and how so much was spent, people may think weve been squeezing you!
That would be dreadful!
She burst into tears.
Siqi could not let this pass either and dragged herself out of bed to take Xiujus side.
Unable to stop their dispute, Yingchun picked up Retribution for Good and Evil and started reading it.
It so happened that Baochai, Daiyu, Baoqin and Tanchun had agreed to come together to cheer Yingchun up, guessing that she must be moping.
They reached the courtyard as the three servants were squabbling.
And Tanchun peeping through the window was amused to see Yingchun sitting on the couch reading, oblivious of the row.
A small maid hastily raised the porti re and announced the young ladies arrival.
Yingchun put down her book and got up while Mrs. Wang, seeing Tanchun among the visitors, quieted down of her own accord and prepared to slip out.
Tanchun sat down and asked, Who were talking in here just now?
It sounded like a quarrel.
Not really, Yingchun told her.
They were making a mountain out of a molehill.
Its nothing to worry about.
Tanchun smiled.
I heard something about a gold phoenix and sponging on us servants.
Whos been asking the servants for money?
Have you, cousin?
Dont you get your monthly allowance just like the rest of us?
Of course she does, cried Siqi and Xiuju.
All the young mistresses get the same and their nurses and nannies make free with their money, never keeping any account, just asking for what they need.
But now she claims that our young lady overspent and they had to make it up.
When did our mistress ever ask them for anything?
If my cousin hasnt, they must mean we have.
Call her in.
I want to get this clear.
Dont be ridiculous, protested Yingchun.
This doesnt concern you, so why involve yourself with her?
Thats not so, retorted Tanchun.
Were in the same boat, cousin, so your business is mine too.
If shes rude to you, shes rude to me as well.
Youd feel the same if you heard someone in my place complaining about me.
Of course, as mistresses we dont worry about trifling expenses, just ask for whatever we want yes, that does happen.
But what was that about your gold phoenix tiara?
Wang Zhus wife hurried in now to defend herself before Xiuju and Siqi could accuse her.
And Tanchun seeing this smiled.
How stupid you are!
she sneered.
As your mother-in-laws in trouble you should beg Madam Lian to redeem the tiara with some of the winnings still left, to settle the matter.
Its not as if we dont know about this, so we could have covered it up to save her face.
Since shes already lost face, whatever crimes shes charged with she can only be punished once nobody has two heads to be chopped off.
So if I were you Id appeal to Madam Lian.
Its outrageous to make a scene here.
The woman could not deny the truth of this, but she dared not go to confess the theft to Xifeng.
If I hadnt heard about it that would be different, Tanchun continued.
But now that I know about this I shall have to help you out.
She signalled to Shishu, who slipped out of the room.
And the others went on talking until suddenly Pinger came in.
Cousin Tanchun must have magic powers, giggled Baoqin clapping her hands.
She can summon goddesses.
This isnt Taoist magic, Daiyu chuckled.
Its the first rate military tactic called guarded as a virgin, swift as a hare to catch your opponent off guard.
Baochai shot them a warning glance and they dropped the subject.
Is your mistress any better?
Tanchun asked Pinger.
Her illness has really made her lose her wits.
Shes let everything slide, and were the ones who suffer.
What do you mean, miss?
asked Pinger hastily.
Tell me whos dared to offend you.
Wang Zhus wife stepped forward, very flustered, to urge her, Please take.a seat, miss, and let me explain.
Who are you to butt in when the young ladies are talking?
demanded Pinger sternly.
If you had any manners, youd wait outside till you were sent for.
Its unheard of for servants from outside to enter the young ladies rooms without any reason.
You should know we have no manners here, put in Xiuju.
People barge in whenever they please.
Thats your fault, retorted Pinger.
Your young lady is good-natured, but you should put people out and then report them to Her Ladyship.
Seeing that Pinger was red in the face with anger, Mrs. Wang finally withdrew.
Tanchun resumed, Let me tell you if anyone else offended me Id not make an issue of it.
But this woman and her mother-in-law, because Yingchuns so sweet-tempered and shes her nanny, smuggled out her trinkets so that she could gamble and then cooked up a false account to blackmail Yingchun into getting her off.
Wang Zhus wife had a big row with these two maids in the bedroom, and Yingchun couldnt control her.
It was too much for me thats why I asked you over.
Tell me, has that woman, coming from another planet, no sense at all?
Or has someone put her up to this to get Yingchun to knuckle under first, and after that Xichun and me?
What an idea, miss!
declared Pinger with a smile.
How could our mistress stand up to such a charge?
Tanchun smiled cynically.
As the proverb says, Everyone feels for his fellow creatures.
And When the lips are gone the teeth will feel the cold.
How can I help being alarmed?
Pinger asked Yingchun, Whats your opinion, miss?
A little business like this is easy to handle, but shes your nannys daughter-in-law after all.
Yingchun, reading Retribution for Good and Evil with Baochai, had not even heard what Tanchun was saying.
Why ask me?
she replied.
Theres nothing I can do.
They brought this on themselves.
I cant get them off but I shant blame them either.
If they bring back the tiara Ill take it if not I wont demand it.
If the mistresses ask about it and Im able to cover up for them, theyll be in luck if I cant, theres no more I can do.
I cant lie to the mistresses for their sake I have to tell the truth.
If you say Im too soft and cant make up my mind, while you have a good plan to please all parties without annoying the mistresses, just go ahead with it I dont need to know it.
-378 This answer amused them all.
Daiyu chuckled, This is really a case of descanting upon religion while tigers and wolves gather at ones gate.
What would happen to this household if you were a man and had to keep it in order?
Many men are the same, so why laugh at me?
answered Yingchun.
As she was speaking a new arrival walked in.
If you want to know who it was read the following chapter.
Chapter 74 Malicious Talk Makes Lady Wang Have a Search Made of the Garden To Guard Her integrity Xichun Breaks with the Ning Mansion As Pinger was smiling over Yingchuns answer they were suddenly joined by Baoyu.
It turned out that enemies of Mrs. Liu in charge of the Gardens kitchen had reported that she had organized gambling parties in her younger sisters name, and they had divided the winnings equally.
Alarmed by the news that Xifeng had decided to have her punished too, Mrs. Liu had hurried to Happy Red Court, being on the best of terms with the maids there, and secretly got Qingwen and Venturina to enlist Baoyus help.
And as Yingchuns nurse was also incriminated, he thought it better to go with Yingchun to intercede for both women instead of going alone for Mrs. Liu.
When he found so much company there and was asked about his health and why he had come, he replied evasively that he had simply dropped in to see Yingchun.
The others accepted this and went on chatting.
Presently Pinger took her leave to attend to Xifengs business, and Mrs. Wang followed her out.
Do put in a good word for us, miss, she begged.
Were going to redeem the tiara anyhow, I promise you.
Youll have to sooner or later, retorted Pinger.
So why make such a scene today?
You expect us to get you off, dont you?
Well, if youre truly repentant I havent the heart to report this, not if you bring the tiara straight back to me as soon as possible, I will, promised Mrs. Wang, reassured by this.
I wont keep you from your work, miss.
Ill get it out of hock this evening and report to you before returning it, Mind you do, or youll have to take the consequences!
Then they went their different ways, Pinger rejoining Xifeng who asked her what Tanchun had wanted her for.
She was afraid you were angry, Pinger prevaricated.
She urged me to soothe you and asked how your appetite was.
That was kind of her.
Just now something else cropped up.
Its been reported to me that Liu Ers wife and her younger sister ran gambling parties together, but Mrs. Liu was really the one behind it.
Youve always advised me to let things slide whenever possible, to get more rest and keep fit.
Because I ignored your advice, Ive had to pay for it to start with, Ive offended my mother-in-law and ruined my own health.
Well, now I know better.
Let them raise any rumpus they please at any rate there are plenty of other people to control them.
Why should I worry for nothing, just getting myself disliked by everyone?
Its more important for me to take care of my health.
And even after Im better I mean to take things easy leave all responsibility to them and have a good time myself.
So Im paying no attention, as I said, to that report.
If you take that line madam, so much the better for us, Pinger approved.
Just then ha Lian came in.
With a clap of his hands he sighed.
Heres fresh trouble out of the blue !
How did my mother come to hear of Yuanyangs loan to me the other day?
Just now she sent for me and asked me to raise two hundred taels no matter where for her Moon Festival expenses.
When I told her Id nowhere to raise it she retorted, When youre short yourself you can get a loan, but when I ask your help you fob me off saying youve nowhere to turn.
Where did you get stuff the other day to pawn for a thousand taels?
You can even spirit away the old ladys things, yet you boggle now at a mere two hundred taels.
Its lucky for you I havent told anyone else.
I cant believe shes really short of money.
Why should she pick on me like this for nothing?
There were no outsiders here that day.
How did the news leak out?
wondered Xifeng.
Pinger thought back carefully, then cried, I know!
That evening the things were brought over, the mother of the old ladys girl Numskull came to deliver the laundry and stayed chatting for a while in the servants quarters.
She must have asked what was in the big case, and one of our maids, not knowing any better, told her.
She called in the maids and asked which of them had blabbed to Numskulls mother.
In fright the girls dropped to their knees, swearing that none of them dared say a word out of turn whenever questioned about anything they denied all knowledge of it, so how could they have let this secret out?
Xifeng saw they were telling the truth.
No, they wouldnt dare, she agreed.
We mustnt wrong them.
Lets not worry about this now but find a way to satisfy Her Ladyship.
However short we are ourselves, we mustnt get into her bad books again.
She told Pinger to pawn her gold necklace for two hundred taels and have the money sent to Lady Xing.
Lets pawn it for four while were at it, suggested Jia Lian.
We need money ourselves as well.
No, I dont need any, she answered.
And we dont know yet how to raise two hundred to redeem it.
Pinger sent Lai Wangs wife with the necklace to the pawnshop.
And on her return, Jia Lian himself took the money to Lady Xing while Xifeng and Pinger went on trying to guess who had let the cat out of the bag.
Her Ladyship knowing doesnt matter much, Xifeng observed.
The danger is that her servants may take this chance to gossip and stir up fresh trouble.
Those greedy gluttons in the other house, who are always throwing dirt, bear Yuanyang a grudge.
If they hear that shes secretly lent things to Master Lian, they may make a commotion and spread outrageous talk.
Master Lian can take it, but Yuanyangs a good girl and if shes involved in trouble it will be our fault.
Dont worry, Pinger laughed.
Yuanyang lent us those things for your sake, not for our masters.
Though it sounds like a secret favour, in fact shell have got the old ladys permission first.
The old lady only pretends not to know because she has so many grandchildren, and if all of them borrow her things to pawn but then make a scene saying that they cant replace them, how is she to cope?
So even if this gets out it wont hurt Yuanyang.
Even so, we know Yuanyangs all right, but those who dont know her are bound to think the worst.
Just then Lady Wang was announced.
Surprised by this unexpected visit, they hurried out to welcome her.
They saw that her face was stern and she was accompanied by her confidential maid only.
Without a word she went into the inner room and sat down, while Xifeng poured her some tea.
You must be in good spirits, Xifeng remarked, to stroll over here today, madam.
Lady Wang sharply ordered Pinger to leave the room.
Hastily assenting she withdrew with all the other maids, wondering what this foreboded.
Having closed the door behind her, she sat on the steps to stop anyone else going in.
Xifeng was flustered too and quite bewildered.
Then Lady Wang with tears in her eyes produced a sachet from her sleeve.
Look at this!
Xifeng took it and saw the indecent embroidery on it.
Very shocked she exclaimed, Where did you find this, madam?
Tears streaming down her cheeks Lady Wang quavered, Are you asking me?
Ive been in the dark all this time.
Relying on your discretion, I took things easy.
Id no idea you were just as careless as me.
Fancy leaving a thing like this on a rock in the Garden, openly, in broad daylight too!
One of the old ladys maids picked it up.
Luckily your mother-in-law found her with it otherwise shed have taken it to the old lady.
How could you be so thoughtless as to leave this lying around?
What makes you think its mine, madam?
asked Xifeng, changing colour.
Whose else could it be?
Lady Wang sobbed.
Just think, youre the only young couple in our household.
What would older women be doing with such a thing?
And where could the girls get hold of it?
No, it must be that dissolute wretch of a husband of yours who picked it up somewhere.
And intimate as you are, its natural that you young people keep playthings of this kind in your bedroom.
Dont try to deny it.
Its a mercy that nobody else in the Garden knows.
If one of the maids there had found it and your girl cousins saw it, that would have been terrible!
Or suppose some little maids picked it up and took it outside, telling people they had found it in the Garden, how could we ever hold up our heads again?
Red in the face with pique and mortification, Xifeng knelt down by the kang.
Of course your reasoning is logical, madam, she said tearfully.
I darent contradict you.
Still, do think more carefully, madam.
In the first place, this sachet was made by craftsmen outside.
See, the belt and tassels are the kind sold in the market.
If theyd been made by embroiderers of our house theyd certainly be finer.
However young and flighty I may be, I wouldnt want such trash.
In the second place, this isnt the sort of thing Id carry around with me.
Even if I had one Id have to keep it indoors, not take it everywhere with me.
Besides, when Im in the Garden with the girls we often scuffle in fun, and think how ashamed Id feel if it was seen, not only by my cousins but even by the servants!
However young and flighty I may be, I wouldnt be as foolish as all that.
In the third place, of all the ladies of our house Im the only young married woman, but there are plenty of servants wives younger than me who are for ever dropping into the Garden then going home again at night.
Couldnt this belong to one of them?
Fourthly, Im not the only visitor to the Garden.
Lady Xing of the other house often takes Yanhong, Cuiyun and other young concubines there.
Theyre all more likely than me to have such things.
Cousin Zhens wife isnt too old either, and she often brings along Peifeng and others so this could equally well belong to them.
Fifthly, with so many maids in the Garden, can we guarantee that they all behave properly?
Isnt it possible that one of the older girls, who knows the facts of life, sneaked out unchecked or made some pretext to gossip with the pages at the inner gate, and smuggled this in from outside?
This not only isnt mine, I can assure you that Pinger has never had such a thing either.
Please reconsider the matter carefully, madam.
This made good sense to Lady Wang.
Get up, she said with a sigh.
I should have known that a girl of good family like you couldnt be so frivolous.
I just challenged you because I was so angry.
But whats to be done?
Your mother-in-law sent this over just now in a sealed package with word that she got it from Numskull the day before yesterday.
I nearly choked with rage!
Dont be angry, madam.
If this gets out, it may come to the old ladys ears.
We must calm down and investigate this on the quiet to get to the bottom of it.
And even if we fail to find the culprit, we mustnt let outsiders know about it but hide our broken arm in our sleeve.
Now lets take this gambling as a pretext to dismiss a good few servants.
Lets choose four or five stewardesses like the wives of Zhou Rui and Lai Wang, whose discretion we can count on, and put them in the Garden ostensibly to check up on the gambling.
We have too many young maids now.
As they grow up they start getting ideas and cause trouble.
If we wait till theres a scandal, we shall regret it too late.
Now if we send some of them packing for no reason, itll not only vex the girls but will make us seem unreasonable, madam.
So lets take this chance to find fault with some of the older and more obstreperous ones, and send them home to get married.
This will prevent any scandals here and save us money too.
What do you think, madam?
Lady Wang sighed again.
You are right, of course.
But to be fair to your cousins, I pity the poor girls.
We neednt go further back, but just look at Daiyus mother how cosseted she was before she married, treasured like gold or jade!
She lived in real style like a fine young lady.
But our girls today are only slightly better off than other peoples servants, with merely two or three presentable maids apiece and four or five younger ones who look like scarecrows.
I havent the heart to cut down their attendants, and I doubt if the old lady would agree to it either.
Difficult as things are, were not all that poor.
I never lived in real luxury and style, yet as a girl I was better off than you.
Id sooner skimp a little myself rather than see them go short.
If were to save money Im willing to make a start.
Now, send for Zhou Ruis wife and the others and order them in strict confidence, mind to hurry up and get to the bottom of this.
Xifeng called Pinger in to pass on these orders.
And soon the wives of Zhou Rui, Wu Xing, Zheng Hua, Lai Wang and Lai Xi arrived, these being the only five couples here who had accompanied Lady Wang or Xifeng to the Jia mansion at the time of their marriage, the others having gone south on business.
Lady Wang was just thinking five too few to make a careful check when they were joined by Lady Xings personal maid, wife of the steward Wang Shanbao who had brought over the pouch.
As Lady Wang treated Lady Xings trusted maids on the same footing as her own, and this woman had come with a great show of concern to ask about this matter, she said to her Go and tell your mistress I want you to move into the Garden for a while to keep an eye on things there.
That would be better than my finding other people.
Now Wang Shanbaos wife, disgruntled by the lack of respect shown her by the maids in the Garden, had long been looking unsuccessfully for some grounds to fault them.
To her mind, this pouch provided a handle against them, while Lady Wangs proposal gave her a welcome chance to settle scores with them.
She promptly answered, Thats easy.
If youll excuse your slave saying so, discipline should have been tightened up there long ago.
You dont go to the Garden very often, madam.
The maids there all behave as if theyd become fine young ladies of noble rank.
They turn things upside-down, and nobody dares say a word for fear theyll work their young mistresses up to accuse people of insulting them.
Whos willing to take such a risk?
Well, thats only to be expected, said Lady Wang.
Our young ladies maids are a cut above the rest, but you should teach them manners.
Not to correct the young mistresses would be wrong, how much more so in the case of their maids.
The others arent so bad, continued Mrs. Wang.
But do you know that minx Qingwen in Baoyus place, madam?
Because shes prettier than most and has the gift of the gab, she makes herself up every day like Xi Shi and is very pert and forward, jabbering away all the time and showing off.
She scolds and carries on in a shocking way on the least provocation.
A regular vamp she is its scandalous!
Thus reminded, Lady Wang remarked to Xifeng, Last time we went for a stroll with the old lady in the Garden, I noticed a girl with a willowy waist, sloping shoulders and eyes and eyebrows rather like Daiyus.
She was scolding one of the younger maids and I didnt at all like the wild look of her, but being with the old lady I said nothing.
I meant to ask later who she was, but I forgot.
She seems to fit this description of Qingwen, Qingwens the prettiest among the maids, Xifeng replied.
She does act and talk rather flippantly too.
Your description sounds like her, but I cant remember exactly what happened that day.
Thats easily remedied, said Wang Shanbaos wife.
Just fetch her now for Your Ladyship to see.
Lady Wang observed, The girls from Baoyus place whom I see most often are Xiren and Sheyue.
Theyre not too smart and thats all to the good.
If shes there, she naturally wouldnt dare come.
Shes just the sort of girl Ive always disliked.
And now that this has happened, think how dreadful it would be if this bitch were to lead our precious Baoyu astray!
She told her maid to go to the Garden.
Just give them this message I want Xiren and Sheyue to stay to look after Baoyu, but that clever girl Qingwen is to come here at once.
Dont tell her why I want her.
The maid assented and went off to Happy Red Court.
Qingwen happened to be unwell that day and had just got up from a nap, feeling out of sorts.
She had no choice now but to obey this summons.
As all the maids were well aware that Lady Wang disliked finery and pertness.
Qingwen had taken care to keep out of her way.
Now as she had been unwell for a couple of days and not paid much attention to her toilet, she had no special misgivings.
When she entered Xifengs room with her hair dishevelled and her costume rumpled, like a frail beauty just aroused from sleep, Lady Wang immediately recognized her as the girl she had seen.
This rekindled her anger.
And being genuinely outraged and already prejudiced, she was too outspoken to conceal her feelings.
She smiled sarcastically.
What a beauty!
she sneered.
Really like an ailing Xi Shi.
Whom are you trying to vamp, going about like this?
Dont think Im ignorant of your goings-on.
Ill let you off now, but very soon Ill have you skinned alive.
How is Baoyu today?
Qingwen knew that someone must have been running her down, but did not venture to express her resentment.
And quickly recovering from her surprise she was intelligent enough not to give a truthful answer.
I seldom go into Baoyus rooms or spend much time with him, she lied.
So I cant say just how he is.
Youll have to ask Xiren or Sheyue, madam.
You deserve a slap on your mouth, fumed Lady Wang.
Are you dead?
What are you paid for?
I used to serve the old lady, answered Qingwen.
Then she said there were too few older maids in the Garden and Baoyu was nervous because it was so empty, so I was to go and keep watch at night in the outer rooms, just to keep an eye on the place.
When I said I was too clumsy to wait on the young master, the old lady scolded, Im not asking you to look after him, you dont have to be smart.
So I had to go.
Its only two or three times a month, when Baoyus bored, that we all have a game together.
His personal needs are attended to by his old nurses and the matrons with Xiren, Sheyue and Qiuwen under them.
In my spare time I still do some sewing for the old lady, so Ive never paid much attention to Baoyus affairs.
But if you wish, madam, I shall be more attentive in future.
Amida Buddha!
Dont trouble!
exclaimed Lady Wang, quite taken in by this.
The less you have to do with Baoyu, the better.
Since you were assigned to him by the old lady, Ill get her permission tomorrow to have you dismissed.
She turned and told Wang Shanbaos wife, You people move into the Garden and keep a good watch on her for a few days.
Dont let her sleep in Baoyus quarters.
Well deal with her after Ive spoken to the old lady.
Get out!
she rapped at Qingwen.
What are you standing there for?
I cant bear the sight of such a vamp.
Who let you dress in those gaudy reds and green s?
Qingwen had to withdraw, so outraged that once out of the door she covered her face with her handkerchief and wept all the way back to the Garden.
Meanwhile Lady Wang was reproaching herself to Xifeng.
These last few years I havent had the energy to see to things, she lamented.
I never set eyes on such a fox-fairy!
I suppose there are others like her too.
Tomorrow I must make a thorough investigation.
Seeing how enraged she was, and knowing that Wang Shanbaos wife often told tales to Lady Xing and incited her to make trouble, Xifeng could not defend Qingwen even had she had good reasons for doing so.
She just lowered her head and assented.
You must look after your health, madam, urged Mrs. Wang.
Just leave trifling matters like this to your slaves.
It should be very easy to find the culprit.
This evening after the Garden gates are locked and no news can get in or out, well take them by surprise and have a thorough search made of all the maids rooms Im positive that whoever had that pouch will have other things of the same kind.
When we find them well know whose it is.
Thats a good idea, approved Lady Wang.
We cant let innocent people take the blame.
She asked Xifeng her opinion.
Of course youre right, madam, Xifeng had to acquiesce.
Thats the way to do it.
This is an excellent plan, added Lady Wang.
Otherwise we could search for a year and still get nowhere.
So they agreed on it.
After supper when the old lady had gone to bed and Baochai and the rest had returned to the Garden, Wang Shanbaos wife accompanied Xifeng there.
They ordered all the gates to be locked and started their search in the rooms of the servants on night duty, but discovered nothing more incriminating than some left-over candles and a jar or two of oil.
These count as stolen property too, declared Wang Shanbaos wife.
They mustnt be moved till weve made our report to Her Ladyship tomorrow.
Then they went first to Happy Red Court and had the courtyard gate locked.
Baoyu was rather unhappy on Qingwens account.
When he saw these matrons marching into the maids rooms, he asked Xifeng what they were doing.
Something important is missing, she told him.
As people are accusing each other and we think one of the maids may have stolen it, were making a general search to clear up suspicion.
She sat down to sip tea while Mrs. Wang and the others set about searching.
They asked whose the different cases were and told the owners to open them themselves.
Xiren had already guessed from what had happened to Qingwen that something was amiss.
Now she was the first to step forward and open her cases and boxes for them to examine.
Finding nothing out of the way, the women went on to search the other maids cases one by one.
When they came to Qingwens they asked Whose is this?
Why doesnt anyone open it for us?
Xiren was about to open it when Qingwen rushed in, her hair loosely knotted.
Crash!
She flung the lid back and raised the case bottom upwards in both hands to empty all its contents on the floor.
Wang Shanbaos wife was disconcerted.
She had a look and, finding nothing improper, suggested to Xifeng that they should move on.
Youd better make a careful search, warned Xifeng.
If you fail to find anything, what are we going to say to Her Ladyship?
The stewardesses assured her, Weve been through everything carefully, and theres nothing that shouldnt be here except a few objects used by boys but these must have belonged to Baoyu when he was small.
Theres nothing of consequence.
Xifeng smiled.
In that case we can go to another house.
As they went out she said to Mrs. Wang, I have a suggestion, if you agree to it, and that is to restrict the search to our own family.
We mustnt raid Miss Baochais quarters.
Of course not.
How can we search our relatives?
Exactly.
By now they had reached Bamboo Lodge where Daiyu was already in bed.
When visitors were announced, not knowing their errand she prepared to get up, but Xifeng came in and made her lie down again.
Go back to sleep, she said.
We wont stay long, She chatted with Daiyu while Mrs. Wang took the others to the maidsquarters and searched their cases and baskets one by one.
In Zijuans room they discovered two amulets which Baoyu had often worn, two tassels from a boys belt, two pouches and a fan in a sheath all Baoyus old belongings.
Wang Shanbaos wife.
thought she had made a find and hastily called Xifeng over to have a look.
Where do these things come from?
she asked.
Xifeng told her with a smile, B aoyus been thick with them ever since he was a child, so naturally these are some of his old things.
This is nothing extraordinary.
Better put them back and try somewhere else.
Our two apartments accounts are so muddled, put in Zijuan gaily, I cant even remember the day, the month or the year when these things were left here.
In view of what Xifeng had said, Mrs. Wang had to let this pass and they went on to Tanchuns place.
Apparently someone had sent Tanchun word of their coming, and she knew there must be some reason for this indignity.
She had ordered her maids to open all the doors and light candles in readiness.
When the women arrived she deliberately asked them their business.
Somethings missing, and we dont know who took it, Xifeng told her.
For fear people may put the blame on these girls, were making a general search to disarm suspicion.
This seems the best way to clear them.
Tanchun laughed scornfully.
Naturally, all our maids are thieves and Im their brigand chief.
So search my cases first.
Theyve given me all their stolen goods for safe-keeping.
She ordered her maids to open up all her chests as well as her mirror-stand, dressing-case, bedding, wrappers and bundles large and small for Xifengs inspection.
Im simply carrying out Her Ladyships orders, said Xifeng with a mollifying smile.
Youve no call to blame me, cousin.
Dont be angry.
She told the maids to close the cases at once, and Pinger and Fenger made haste to help Daishu and the rest put the things away.
Ill let you search my things, but not my maids, Tanchun insisted.
As a matter of fact, being meaner than all the others, I know everything theyve got and Im keeping it for them here.
They havent so much as a needle or thread themselves.
So if search you must, search me.
If you dont agree, go and report to Her Ladyship that I wont obey her orders, and Ill accept any punishment she thinks fit.
Just you wait though!
The day will come when youre raided too.
Werent you talking this morning about the Zhen family and how they were doing fine but insisted on ransacking each others houses?
Now theyve been raided themselves and their propertys been confiscated.
Our turns coming too.
Now I realize that big families like ours cant be destroyed in one fell swoop from outside.
In the words of the old saying, A centipede even when dead wont fall to the ground.
We must start killing each other first before our family can be completely destroyed.
By now she was shedding tears.
Xifeng looked in silence at the stewardesses.
Taking the hint Zhou Ruis wife proposed, As all these girls things are here, madam, wed better go elsewhere and leave Miss Tanchun to rest.
Xifeng got up to take her leave.
But Tanchun cried, Mind you make a thorough search.
I wont have you coming here again tomorrow!
Since all your maids things are here, theres no need to search, replied Xifeng with a smile.
Tanchun laughed scornfully.
How smart you are!
Youve opened even my bundles of old clothes, yet still pretend you havent ransacked the place.
Will you accuse me later of shielding my maids and refusing to let you search?
Lets get this clear now.
If you want to search again, just go ahead.
Xifeng knew how difficult Tanchun was and therefore answered soothingly, Weve made a thorough search, even including your things.
Are you all satisfied?
Tanchun challenged the others.
Zhou Ruis wife and the rest assured her that they were.
But Wang Shanbaos wife was tactless.
She had heard that Tanchun was difficult to handle, but thought this was because others were afraid to stand up to her.
How could a young girl have her own way like this?
Besides, the mere daughter of a concubine would hardly dare cross her, Lady Xings personal maid whom even Lady Wang treated with respect, to say nothing of younger members of the household.
Tanchuns behaviour had led her to believe that she was simply annoyed with Xifeng, not with the rest of them.
So she decided to assert herself and stepping forward through the crowd she pulled up the girls lapel.
Yes, she sniggered.
Ive searched even the young ladys person.
Theres really nothing.
Lets go, nurse, interposed Xifeng.
Stop this fooling.
Even as she was speaking slap!
Tanchun boxed Mrs. Wangs ears.
Who do you think you are?
she fumed, pointing one finger at her.
How dare you paw me?
Its only for Her Ladyships sake and because youre old that I call you nurse, but like a dog counting on its masters backing youre always making trouble.
Today youve gone too far.
If you think Im as good-natured as your young mistress, whom you bully just as you please, youre making a big mistake.
I didnt scold you for coming to raid our place, but youve no right to take liberties with me.
She started taking off her clothes and insisted that, instead of letting a slave maul her, Xifeng must search her carefully herself.
Xifeng and Pinger hurriedly helped to dress her again.
A few cups of wine and you play the fool, they scolded Mrs. Wang.
The other day you offended Her Ladyship too.
Be off with you now, and not another word.
They tried to placate Tanchun.
If Id any pride, scoffed Tanchun, I should have dashed my brains out long ago.
How can I let a slave search my person for stolen goods?
Tomorrow Ill report this to Their Ladyships, then go to apologize to Lady Xing and accept whatever punishment she thinks fit.
Wang Shanbaos wife, thoroughly abashed, started grumbling outside the window, This is too much!
Ive never been struck before in all my life.
Tomorrow Ill ask Her Ladyships leave to go home.
Whats there left for me to live for?
Hear that?
Tanchun snapped at her maids.
Are you waiting for me to go out and argue with her?
At once Daishu darted out.
If you get leave to go home, thats our good fortune!
she cried.
Were only afraid you wont ask.
Well!
laughed Xifeng.
Heres truly a case of like mistress like maid.
We thieves all have ready tongues, retorted Tanchun.
But she isnt clever enough to tell tales to her mistress.
Pinger tried to smooth things over and fetched Daishu back while Zhou Ruis wife and the others soothed Tanchun.
And Xifeng waited till she had gone to bed before leading her search party to Warm Spring Village opposite, for as this lay just between Xichuns and Tanchuns quarters it was the next place to visit before Xichuns.
Li Wan, ill in bed, had just taken medicine and gone to sleep, so without disturbing her they searched her maids rooms.
Not finding anything there they went on to Xichuns place.
Xichun being little more than a child was frightened, and Xifeng had to soothe her.
However, in Ruhuas case they discovered a big package of thirty to forty gold and silver ingots so instead of evidence of immoral conduct they had found stolen goods!
There was also a set of jade ornaments for a mans belt and a bundle containing a mans sandals and socks.
Ruhua turned pale.
And asked where these things came from she knelt down and sobbed.
They were given my brother by Lord Zhen, she faltered.
Now that our parents are down south he lives with our uncle.
And because my uncle and aunt are fond of drinking and gambling, for fear theyd squander anything he gets my brother always gives it to an old nurse to bring to me for safe-keeping.
Xichun was naturally timid and this disclosure appalled her.
Id no idea!
she cried.
How disgraceful!
If you want to have her beaten, sister-in-law, do take her away so that I dont have to hear it.
If what you say is true, its forgivable, said Xifeng to Ruhua.
But you shouldnt smuggle things in here in secret.
If you had these smuggled in, you can smuggle in other things too so whoever brought them in here is to blame.
If youre lying and these are stolen goods, dont expect to get off alive!
Kneeling before her Ruhua sobbed, I dare not lie to you, madam.
You can check with Her Ladyship and His Lordship tomorrow.
If they say these werent gifts, I wont complain if you have me and my brother beaten to death.
Naturally I shall check.
But even if these were gifts you still did wrong.
Who gave you permission to bring things here in secret?
Tell me who your intermediary was and Ill let you off.
But mind you never do such a thing again.
Dont let her off, sister-in-law, cried Xichun.
We have so many people here, if we dont make an example of one of them the bigger offenders will get quite out of hand.
Even if youre willing to forgive her, Im not.
Shes usually quite well behaved, isnt she?
We all make mistakes, and this is her first offence.
If she does it again well punish her for both.
But I wonder who smuggled the things in for her?
As for that, it must be Mrs. Zhang at the back gate.
Shes always whispering with the maids and they all do her little favours.
Xifeng told the stewardesses to make a note of this name, and the things were entrusted to Zhou Ruis wife for temporary custody till a check had been made the next day.
Then they took their leave of Xichun and went on to Yingchuns place.
Yingchun was already asleep.
They knocked for some time before the gate was opened.
Xifeng gave orders not to disturb the young lady and went with the others to the maids quarters.
As Siqi there was Mrs. Wangs grand-daughter.
Xifeng was curious to know whether or not she was biased by family ties and she therefore paid special attention to this search.
Mrs. Wang started with the other girls cases and, finding nothing exceptionable, went on to open Siqis case.
After a perfunctory search she declared there was nothing there and started to close it.
Wait!
cried Zhou Ruis wife.
Whats this?
She reached to pick out a mans silk socks and slippers as well as a small bundle.
When they opened this, they found inside a love-knot and a letter.
These were handed to Xifeng for her inspection, for as she was in charge of the household and had to read letters and go through accounts, she knew quite a few characters.
Xifeng saw that this stationery was red with double happy-life designs.
On it was written After your visit home last month my parents found out about our understanding, but we cant have our wish until after your young ladys marriage, if its possible to meet in the Garden, get Mrs. Zhang to send me word.
That would be more convenient than your coming here.
Do, do arrange it!
Also, Ive received the two pouches you sent me, and Im sending you a string of scented beads as a token of my love.
Please.
Keep them safely.
Your cousin, Pan Youan.
This letter, far from angering Xifeng, amused her.
As none of the others could read and Mrs. Wang had no inkling of this romance between her grand-daughter and young Pan, the sight of the slippers and socks had made her uneasy.
When Xifeng started laughing at what was written on the red paper she said I suppose this is some account and youre amused by their poor writing, madam?
Quite.
This account takes some working out.
As Siqis maternal grandmother, tell me how her cousin comes to have the name Pan instead of Wang?
In some surprise Mrs. Wang stammered, Her paternal aunt married a Pan, so she has a cousin named Pan the Pan Youan who ran away the other day.
That explains it, chuckled Xifeng.
Ill read it for you.
She read the letter, and everybody was shocked.
It had never occurred to Wang Shanbaos wife, so intent had she been on exposing others, that her grand-daughter would be caught out.
She was quite overwhelmed by shame and vexation.
Zhou Ruis wife and the other stewardesses asked her, Well, what have you to say to that?
How should we deal with her in your opinion?
Mrs. Wang wished she could sink into the ground, and Xifeng laughed at her.
This is just as well, she remarked to Mrs. Zhou.
Shes saved her granny and everyone trouble by quietly picking a fine young man for herself.
Zhou Ruis wife chuckled too and made some caustic comments.
Unable to vent her anger on anyone else, Mrs. Wang slapped her own face.
You old bitch whos lived beyond your time!
she swore.
This is retribution for your sins.
You brought this on yourself.
The others burst out laughing, then while making a show of consoling her flung a few taunts at her.
Only Siqi stood silent with lowered head, but to Xifengs surprise she showed no sign of fear.
It was too late to question the girl, but for fear she might do away with herself that night Xifeng detailed two matrons to keep an eye on her.
Then she had the evidence they had discovered taken back to her place and retired, meaning to settle the matter the next day.
During the night, however, Xifeng had to get up several times and lost a good deal of blood.
The next morning she kept to her bed, feeling weak and dizzy.
The court physician summoned to examine her reported The young mistress suffers from lack of vital blood and a hot humour in the spleen caused by worry and undue exertion.
This has resulted in listlessness, drowsiness, indigestion and lack of appetite.
A tonic to restore her strength and cool the hot humour is recommended.
Having made out a prescription including ginseng, angelica, astragalus and the like, he took his leave.
Some old nurses took the prescription to Lady Wang, and this so added to her worries that for the time being she set Siqis business aside.
That day Madam You happened to call first on Xifeng and then on Li Wan in the Garden.
She was meaning to visit the girls when Xichun sent a maid to invite her over.
Xichun told her all that had happened the night before and showed her the ingots found among Ruhuas things.
These really were gifts to her brother from Zhen, Madam You confirmed.
His giving them was above-board, but she shouldnt have smuggled them in here on the sly thats turned state traffic in salt into contraband.
She scolded Ruhua for her stupidity, saying eating too much rich food had addled her wits.
As master and mistress you werent strict enough with your servants, yet now you blame the maid, protested Xichun.
Of all us girls here Im the only one to lose face through my maid.
How am Ito face people in future?
Last night I urged Xifeng to take her away, but she wouldnt.
Thats natural, I suppose, as Ruhua comes from the East Mansion.
But today I meant to take her there myself, so Im glad youve come.
Do take her away quickly.
You can beat her, kill her or sell her I shant care in the least.
Ruhua fell on her knees weeping.
I wont do such a thing again.
But please, miss, for old times sake, let me die here with you!
she pleaded.
Madam You and the nurses interceded too.
This was just a momentary slip-up, and she wont dare do it again, they said.
Shes been waiting on you since childhood.
Youd better allow her to stay.
But Xichun although young had a will of her own and was most uncompromising and eccentric.
However hard they pleaded, she was adamant as she felt the maid had disgraced her.
I dont want Ruhua, she insisted.
Not only that, now that Im growing up I think it best not to visit you people over there myself.
Especially as these last few days Ive been hearing a lot of gossip.
I dont want to be mixed up in any scandal.
Whos been gossipping?
asked Madam You.
What about?
Arent we all one family?
If you hear talk about us, you should ask the gossips why they spread such rumours.
Xichun smiled scornfully.
A fine way to talk!
A young girl like me should just steer clear of scandals.
What sort of creature would I be if instead I sought them out?
And at the risk of offending you I must say Your reputations known, so I dont have to ask what it is.
As the ancients said Where good and evil, life and death are concerned, even fathers and sons are unable to help each other.
Thats even truer of us.
What I care about is my good name, not yours.
If you get involved in scandals in future, dont drag me in.
Madam You did not know whether to laugh or be angry.
She said to the servants, No wonder they all call her young and foolish.
I didnt believe them, but you heard the unreasonable way she talked just now showing no judgement or sense of proportion at all.
Its childish talk, but it cuts people to the quick.
Shes young, madam, the nurses rejoined.
You must make allowances.
I may be young, Xichun retorted.
All the same Im speaking from experience.
You dont know enough characters to read, so youre all so benighted that when I talk sense you call me young and foolish.
Youre the Number One Scholar, the greatest talent of all times, quipped Madam You.
Stupid people like us dont have your sense.
Hows that?
Even Number One scholars can be foolish.
In fact theyre most likely to lack enlightenment.
Fine!
Madam You crowed.
A moment ago you were a talented scholar now youve become a chief monk holding forth on enlightenment.
If I werent enlightened, I wouldnt have the heart to give up Ruhua.
But that proves you heartless and cold.
As the ancients said One must be ruthless to keep out of trouble.
Im pure and spotless.
Why should I spoil my integrity by letting you involve me in your affairs?
Being sensitive on this point, Madam You disliked such talk.
She had been mortified to hear that there had been gossip, but had controlled herself in front of Xiehun.
This last thrust was more than she could take, however.
In what way have we involved you?
she demanded.
Your maid does wrong, and for no reason you round on me.
Ive put up with it for some time, but thats only emboldened you to keep on like this.
If youre such a fine young lady, we wont venture to approach you in future for fear of spoiling your good reputation.
She ordered her servants to take Ruhua away and got up in a temper to leave.
If you do stay away that will save us bickering and trouble, and we can all have a quiet life, cried Xichun.
Madam You did not answer this but went straight out.
To know what happened later, read the next chapter.
Chapter 75 At a Feast One Night Portentous Sighing Is Heard New Poems on the Moon Festival Are Taken as Good Omens Madam You left Xichun in a huff to call on Lady Wang, but the nurses accompanying her quietly warned her, Better not go there, madam.
TJia Zhen family have just sent people with some things and they seem to want it kept quiet, so this may not be a good time to call.
Only yesterday your master told me that, according to the Court Gazette, tJia Zhens have been charged with crimes, said Madam You.
Their house has been raided, their property confiscated, and theyve been fetched to the capital to stand trial.
So why have these people come?
Why indeed?
answered the nurses.
The few women who arrived just now looked flustered and agitated.
They must be up to something they dont want to be known.
In view of this, Madam You called instead on Li Wan.
The court physician treating her had just left, and as her health had recently improved she was sitting propped up against her pillow in bed with a quilt around her, just hoping someone would drop in for a chat.
She soon noticed, however, that Madam You was not her usual amiable self, simply sitting there lost in thought.
It was good of you to come, said Li Wan.
Have you eaten anything in your round of calls?
You must be hungry.
She told Suyun to try to find some delicacies for her.
No need, no need, Madam You at once demurred.
Ill as youve been, you cant have any delicacies here.
Besides, Im not hungry.
Lans aunt has sent me some good fried flour lets mix a bowl for you to taste.
She ordered a maid to prepare this, while Madam You remained silent in a brown study.
The attendants who had come with her suggested.
You didnt wash at noon, madam.
Would you like to freshen up now?
When she nodded, Li Wan told Suyun to fetch her dressing case, and with it the girl brought some of her own rouge and powder.
Our mistress doesnt use cosmetics, so please make do with these of mine if you dont think them dirty, madam, she said with a smile.
The idea!
scolded Li Wan.
Although I havent got such things, you should have fetched some from one of the young ladies, instead of producing your own.
Youre lucky its her and not anybody else or theyd have taken offence at your impudence.
What does it matter?
said Madam You.
I use all your servants things each time I come here.
Why should I be fussy today?
She sat cross-legged on the kang while Yindie took off her bracelets and rings, then spread a large handkerchief on her lap to protect her clothing.
A large basin of warm water was brought in by Chaodou, one of the younger maids, who stooped to hold it out for Madam You.
Will you never learn to adapt yourself to circumstances?
cried Yindie.
Once given an instruction, you stick to it, regardless.
Because our mistress is lenient and not particular about etiquette at home, you get the idea you can be equally casual in a relatives house, carrying on in public the way you do in private.
Never mind, said Madam You.
All I want is a wash. Chaodou hastily knelt down.
In our family, went on Madam You with a smile, high and low alike all observe the outward forms of etiquette but actually carry on in a scandalous way.
Li Wan knew from this that she had heard about the last nights happenings.
Why do you say that?
she laughed.
Whos been carrying on in a scandalous way?
Why ask me?
You may have been ill but you werent dead Before she could say more, Baochai was announced and she entered even as Li Wan was asking her in.
Madam You quickly wiped her face and got up to offer her a seat.
All by yourself?
she asked.
Where are the other girls?
I havent seen them, said Baochai.
Ive come because mothers unwell, and our only two reliable maids are ill in bed so I must go back to keep her company tonight.
I meant to ask leave from Their Ladyships, but then I thought that as its not really serious theres no need to mention it and anyway Ill come back as soon as shes better.
So Ive just come to let you know.
Li Wan and Madam You exchanged smiles at this.
And now that the latter had cleaned up they all had some fried-flour tea.
Li Wan remarked, We must send to inquire after Aunt Xues illness, as Im not well enough to go myself.
Yes, just go along home, dear cousin.
Ill assign people to keep an eye on your rooms for you while youre away.
But mind you come back after a day or two, otherwise Ill be held to blame.
Why should you be?
This is just for the time being and perfectly natural.
Its not as if you were taking a bribe to let a thief escape!
And I see no reason for you to send people over.
Why not invite Xiangyun here to stay with you for a few days?
Wouldnt that be simpler?
Where is she?
asked Madam You.
I just sent her to find Tanchun and bring her here, so that I can let her know too.
That same moment Xiangyun and Tanchun were announced, and after they had been offered seats Baochai explained why she was leaving the Garden.
Very good, commented Tanchun.
So youll come back when aunties better.
And even if you dont, that wont matter either.
Thats strange way to talk!
exclaimed Madam You.
Are we driving our relatives away?
Thats the idea.
Tanchun smiled mockingly.
Better drive them out before getting thrown out by others.
In any case, theres no need for relatives to live together all the time.
Were a happy family of kith and kin I must say, all like game-cocks fighting to finish each other off.
Im certainly out of luck today, Madam You laughed, Finding so many of you girls in a bad temper.
Who told you to come and burn yourself on the stove?
Tanchun retorted.
And who else has offended you?
She went on thoughtfully, Xichun has no reason to scold you, so who else could it be?
Madam You just muttered an evasive reply.
Knowing she was reluctant to speak out for fear of trouble, Tanchun teased, Dont pretend to be so simple.
People dont get their heads chopped off except for crimes against the state, so what are you so afraid of?
Ill tell you the truth I slapped that old wife of Wang Shanbaos yesterday, and Im quite willing to take the consequences.
But apart from calling me names behind my back, nobodys likely to give me a beating for it.
Asked by Baochai what had provoked her, Tanchun described in detail the search made the night before and why she had struck Mrs. Wang.
Since Tanchun had come out with it, Madam You told them how Xichun had just treated her.
Shes like that, observed Tanchun, so eccentric and stubborn theres just no talking her round.
Then she informed them, When no action was taken this morning and I heard that our peppery Xifeng was ill again, I sent my nanny to find out what had happened to Wang Shanbaos wife.
She came back to report that the old creature got a thrashing for being too meddlesome.
Serves her right too, approved Madam You and Li Wan.
Tanchun laughed caustically.
Who cant see through that trick?
Just wait and see Madam You and Li Wan made no answer to this.
And presently, thinking it time for the Lady Dowagers meal, Xiangyun and Baochai went back to pack their things while Madam You took her leave of Li Wan and went straight to the old ladys place.
She found her sitting on her couch listening to Lady Wangs disturbing account of how tJia Zhen family had got into trouble, had their property confiscated and been fetched to the capital for punishment.
She asked Madam You where she had come from and if Xifeng and Li Wan were any better.
Theyre both better today, Madam You made haste to assure her.
The old lady nodded and sighed.
Well, lets not trouble ourselves about other peoples affairs but consider how to celebrate the Moon Festival.
Weve got everything ready, said Lady Wang.
But we dont know where youd like to have the feast.
Only the wind may be cold at night in the empty Garden.
That doesnt matter.
We can dress more warmly.
Thats just the place to enjoy the moon, of course.
While they were chatting tables had been brought in, and Lady Wang and Madam You at once helped to serve the food.
The Lady Dowager saw that in addition to the dishes prepared for her there were two big hampers of others, it being the custom for the two mansions to present her with extra dishes every day.
She asked what they were.
Ive told you several times to stop this, but you never listen, she complained.
Were not as well off as we used to be.
Ive passed on your instructions more than once, but this goes on as usual, Yuanyang said.
So I had to let it go.
This is only everyday family fare, put in Lady Wang.
As today is one of my fast days we havent got much, and knowing that youre not too fond of gluten of wheat and beancurd I just chose minced watermallow with pepper sauce.
Thats good.
Just what I fancy.
At once Yuanyang set this dish before her.
Baoqin and the other girls after deferring to each other took seats too.
And Tanchun, told by the old lady to join them, after first declining the honour sat down opposite Baoqin, Shishu then brought out a bowl and chopsticks.
Pointing at two dishes in a hamper Yuanyang remarked We dont know what these are, theyre from the Elder Master.
This bowl of bamboo-shoots with chicken marrow is from Lord Zhen.
She placed it on the table.
The old lady simply tasted a couple of dishes, then ordered those two to be returned to the senders.
Tell them Ive tried them, she said.
In future theres no need to send over every day.
1ff fancy anything Ill ask for it.
The matrons assented and went off with the dishes.
Is there any congee?
the Lady Dowager asked.
Madam You, who had a bowl ready, remarked that it was made of special red rice.
The old lady took it and ate half a bowl, then had some sent to Xifeng.
She also had a bowl of bamboo-shoots and a dish of salted raccoon sent to Daiyu and Baoyu, and another bowl of meat sent to Jia Lan.
Then she urged Madam You to come and eat.
The latter assented but waited till the old lady had washed her hands, rinsed her mouth and left the table to chat with Lady Wang.
And as she took a seat, Tanchun and Baoqin got up and asked to be excused.
What, leave me all alone at this big table!
cried Madam You.
Im not used to it.
Yuanyang and Hupo!
called the old lady, chuckling.
Heres your chance to tuck in.
Come and keep her company.
Fine, fine.
Madam You smiled.
Just what I was hoping for.
Its great fun watching a whole lot of people eating together.
The old lady pointed at Yindie.
Thats a good child too.
Come and join your mistress.
You can stick to the rules again after leaving me.
Come on, quick, Madam You cried.
No need to put on an act.
The Lady Dowager, her hands behind her as she looked on with amusement, noticed one of the maids offer Madam You a bowl of the ordinary white rice for the servants.
Are you out of your mind, serving your mistress that rice?
she demanded.
Your rice is finished, madam, said the maid.
And as theres an extra young lady today, were short.
We have to cut our coat according to our cloth, Yuanyang put in.
Nowadays theres no margin at all.
Lady Wang explained, The last couple of years, what with floods and drought, our farms havent been able to produce their quota, especially of the rice of the finer kind.
So we only issue as much as we think will be needed, for fear of running out.
The rice you buy outside isnt to our taste.
The old lady chortled, As the proverb says Even a clever wife cant make congee without rice.
Amid general laughter Yuanyang asked the servant, In that case, why not fetch Miss Tanchuns rice here to make up?
Wouldnt that be the same?
Why be so stupid?
No, Ive had enough, said Madam You with a smile.
Theres no need to fetch more.
You may have had enough, but what about me?
Yuanyang parried.
Then the serving-women hurried off to fetch more.
Presently Lady Wang went off to have her meal leaving Madam You to chat with the old lady till about nine, when she was told Its late now.
Youd better go back.
Madam You took her leave then and went out to the gate to mount her carriage.
Yindie took a place at one side of the carriage.
The serving-women, having let down the curtain, led the young maids to wait at the Ning Mansions gate for as the two mansions were less than a bow shot apart, no elaborate preparations had to be made when the members of both exchanged visits, especially at night when many of them went out and returned.
So the old nurses just led the young maids the short distance over, the men-servants at both gates having already cordoned off the east and west ends of the street.
Madam Yous carriage was not drawn by a mule.
Instead, seven or eight pages pulled it gently along to the steps of the Ning Mansion, then withdrew behind the stone lions flanking the gate while the serving-women raised the curtain and Yindie alighted to help her mistress down.
Seven or eight lanterns large and small shed a bright light, and noticing four or five carriages drawn up by the stone lions Madam You inferred that visitors had arrived for another gambling party.
Look at all those carriages, she said to Yindie.
And how many more came on horseback weve no means of knowing, as their horses will all be tethered in the stables.
How much money can those young fellows parents give them to throw away like this?
By now she had reached the front hail, where Jia Rongs wife was waiting to welcome her at the head of serving-women and maids with candles.
Ive always wanted to take a peep at them, remarked Madam You.
Heres our chance at last!
Suppose we walk past their windows?
The matrons assented and led the way with lanterns, one of them going quietly ahead to warn the pages in attendance not to make any commotion.
When Madam You and the rest tiptoed up to the windows they heard quite a noise inside jokes and compliments interspersed with complaints and curses.
The fact is that Jia Zhen, being in mourning and unable to go out to amuse himself or listen to operas or music, had thought of a way to while away the time.
In the day-time, under the pretext of practising archery, he invited young lordlings and other wealthy relatives and friends to archery contests.
Arguing that shooting at random could not improve their skill and might even spoil their style, he imposed certain penalties and set stakes as an incentive to all to do their best.
They had set up a target in the shooting-range under Heavenly Fragrance Pavilion and made it the rule to assemble there every morning after breakfast.
Jia Zhen, not wanting his name to be used, made Jia Rong act as the banker.
The young hereditary nobles from wealthy families whom they invited were a set of profligates who enjoyed cock-fights, dog-racing and playing about with singsong girls and young actors.
They agreed to take it in turn every day after the shooting contest to stand treat, so that Jia Rong need not defray all the expenses.
And so day after day they had pigs, sheep and poultry killed and vied to show off their wealth, the skill of their chefs and the sumptuousness of their feasts.
Jia She and Jia Zheng did not hear about this until it had gone on for a fortnight or so, and not realizing what was involved they judged it quite right and proper for these young men not versed in literature to practise military arts, the more so as they belonged to families of hereditary generals of noble ranks.
They even ordered ha Huan, Jia Cong, Baoyu and Jia Lan to come over too after breakfast every day to practise archery with Jia Zhen for a while.
But since Jia Zhen had other ends in view, alleging the need to relax after their exertions he soon started arranging card games in the evenings and they laid wagers while drinking.
So little by little these turned into gambling parties.
Now, after three or four months, gambling had priority over archery and they played cards, diced and gambled quite openly day and night.
The servants, getting more perks, encouraged this and so it was now routine quite unknown to people outside the family.
Recently their group had been joined by Lady Xings younger brother Xing Dequan, an inveterate wastrel, as well as the confirmed prodigal Xue Pan who naturally thought this a splendid scheme.
Xing Dequan although Lady Xings brother had totally different interests, being a credulous fool who spent money like water and found all his pleasure in drinking, gambling and debauchery.
He liked good drinkers and shunned those who did not drink, no matter whether they were high or low, making no distinction between master and slave hence everybody called him Foolish Uncle.
Xue Pan, who had long been dubbed the Stupid Lordling, naturally found Xing a man after his own heart.
As both of them liked dicing because it was fast, they had got two fellows to dice with them on the kang in the outer room where a few other men were playing cards at a big table, while in the inner room a less uncouth party were in the middle of a game of dominoes.
Most of their attendants were pages of less than fifteen, all grown men-servants being debarred from the place.
This was why Lady You dared peep through the window.
She saw that wine was being served by two young actors of seventeen or eighteen, strikingly handsome in their fine clothes and make up.
Xue Pan was scowling after a losing throw, but now with a lucky toss he recouped his losses and won, which restored his good humour.
Lets stop for a while, proposed Jia Zhen, and have some refreshments before going on.
He asked how the two other tables were getting on.
The domino players in the inner room had also finished and were waiting for supper, but the card players were in the middle of a game and reluctant to stop.
Without waiting for them they had one table set first, and Jia Zhen sat down to dine with those who were ready, instructing Jia Rong to wait for the rest.
Xue Pan, in exuberation, fondling one of the actors as he drank, ordered him to toast Foolish Uncle.
But Xing was in a bad mood, after losing.
Tipsy after two bowls of wine, he complained that the actors simply made up to the winners, ignoring the losers.
You pansies are all the same, he swore.
Weve been together all these days and youve had favours from us all, but now as soon as I lose a few taels of silver you start cold-shouldering me.
Do you think youll never need my help again?
Seeing that he was half drunk, the others tried to humour him.
Quite right, quite right, they said.
Thats a bad way they have.
They sternly ordered the two boys, Hurry up and offer him wine to apologize.
The two young actors, accustomed to such scenes, knelt down to offer Xing a drink.
In our profession our masters train us all, no matter how generous or close our patrons may be, just to make up to the rich and powerful.
A man may be a living Buddha or saint, but so long as he has no money or influence we have to ignore him.
Besides, sir, were young and in this low profession, so please overlook it this time and let us off.
They raised a cup of wine and fell on their knees.
Though Foolish Uncle was mollified he kept up a show of anger.
Theyre telling the truth, thats how it is, said the others.
Youve always had a soft spot in your heart for actors why be like this today?
If you refuse to drink how dare they get up?
Xing gave in at that and growled, If it werent for all these gentlemen interceding, Id have nothing more to do with you.
Then only did he take the cup and drain it.
Another bowl was poured.
And now the wine went to his head, making him hark back to earlier grievances.
Pounding the table he said to Jia Zhen with a sigh We cant blame these boys, my worthy nephew, for being so grasping.
Why, where money and power are concerned, many people from big official families will forget even their own flesh and blood.
Did you hear about the row I had yesterday with your respected aunt?
No, I didnt, was ha Zhens reply.
Xing Dequan sighed again.
It was all over filthy lucre.
Jia Zhen knew he was on bad terms with Lady Xing, who thoroughly disapproved of him and often complained about him.
Youre rather too improvident, uncle, he said.
If you go on spending at this rate, youll never have enough.
My dear worthy nephew, you dont know how it is in our family, Xing retorted.
At the time of my mothers death I was still small and knew nothing of affairs.
Of my three sisters your respected aunt is the oldest.
She grabbed all our family property and brought it over with her at the time of her marriage.
Now my second sisters married too, but also in straitened circumstances.
My third is still at home, all our expenses are doled out to us by your aunts personal maid here, the wife of your steward Wang Shanhao.
When I come to ask for money Im not cadging from you Jias.
Our Xing family has quite enough for me to spend -- if only I could get my hands on it.
Its grossly unjust.
but what can I do about it?
Afraid this maudlin talk would make a bad impression on their guests.
Jia Zhen tried to change the subject.
But Madam You outside had heard all this clearly.
Hear that?
she whispered to Yindie.
Thats Lady Xings younger brother complaining about her.
If she treats her own brother so badly, no wonder other people complain of her too.
She was eager to hear more, and just then the card players who had finished their game came over to join the feast.
Who offended Uncle Xing just now?
one of them asked.
I didnt quite get it.
Tell us.
and let us arbitrate.
Xin told them then how the two actors cold-shouldered losers and made up to winners.
In that case, said the young man.
you had good reason to be angry, uncle.
Let me ask you two boys this Uncle Xing has only lost some money, not his prick, hasnt he?
So why cold-shoulder him?
At this eyeryone roared with laughter, including Xing, who guffawed so hard that he sprayed rice all over the floor.
Madam You outside spat in disgust.
Listen to those shameless voung scoundrels.
she SWOC softly.
Barely lost their milk-teeth yet spewing out such dirt.
If they go on swilling that yellow wine, who knows what theyll come out with next!
She retired to her own room to bed.
Jia Zhen kept the guests company until the fourth watch when at last the party broke up, then went to spend the night with his concubine Peifeng.
The next day when he got up, some servants reported that the watermelons and mooncakes for the festival were ready for distribution.
Jia Zhen told his concubine, Ask your mistress to share them out as she thinks fit.
I have other things to attend to.
Peifeng reported this to Madam You, who had shares sent over to the different households.
Presently the concubine came back to inquire, The master wants to know whether youre going out today or not, madam.
He says since we are in mourning we cant celebrate the Moon Festival on the fifteenth of the eighth month, but we can have a family party tonight to mark the occasion with melons, fruit, cakes and wine.
I dont want to go out, replied Madam You, but Madam Zhu over there is unwell and Xifeng is laid up too.
If I dont go, therell be no one to see to things.
Besides, as hes so busy, why have a party?
The masters not receiving visitors today and wont be at home to them till the sixteenth.
Hes set his mind on inviting you to a feast.
All right then, but I cant return this favour.
Peifeng went off laughing, returning soon to report, The master hopes youll come home early in time for dinner, madam.
And hes told me to go with you.
In that case hed better hurry up and have breakfast, so that I can make a start.
He says hell have it outside, and wants you to breakfast without him.
Whom has he got out there?
I hear two men have just arrived from Nanjing, bull dont know who they are.
As she was speaking Jia Rongs wife, having finished her toilet, came in to pay her respects.
Soon they sat down to breakfast together, Madam You in the higher place, her daughter-in-law in the lower.
Then Madam You changed her clothes and went over to the Rong Mansion.
On her return that evening, Jia Zhen had indeed prepared a feast a whole pig and sheep together with other dishes and sweetmeats too many to enumerate.
Peacock-feather screens and lotus-patterned cushions were set out in the Hall of Green Shrubs in the Garden of Concentrated Fragrance, and there he and his wife and concubines dined, then drank together to enjoy the moon.
By the time of the first watch the breeze was fresh and the bright moon silvered everything high and low.
Jia Zhen proposed playing some drinking games, whereupon Madam You made Peifeng and the three other concubines join them, sitting in a row in the lower seats at their table to play the finger-guessing game and drink.
Then Jia Zhen, in high spirits after wine, sent a servant to fetch a purple bamboo flute and asked Peifeng to play it while Wenhua sang.
Her voice was so clear and tender that the listeners were entranced.
After that they played more drinking games until nearly midnight, by when Jia Zhen was eight-tenths drunk.
Tea was served, and they had just been brought fresh wine cups when they heard long-drawn-out sighing from the direction of the garden wall.
Everyone heard it distinctly and they were fearfully startled.
Who is there?
demanded iia Zhen sternly.
But though he called out several times there was no answer.
It maybe one of our servants behind the wall, suggested Madam You.
Nonsense, her husband retorted.
The servants quarters are nowhere near the wall.
Besides, that part is just by the ancestral temple.
Who could he there at this hour?
That same instant they heard a gust of wind on the other side of the wall and the sound as if of partition windows slamming inside the temple.
The air struck them as colder, and the moon just now so bright and clear seemed suddenly dimmed.
All the girls and women shivered.
Jia Zhen half sobered up, but though more in control of himself than the women he was most amazed and apprehensive too.
This cast a gloom over the party.
Still, they felt constrained to sit there a little longer before retiring to their rooms to rest.
The next morning being the fifteenth, Jia Zhen rose early and led the whole family to open the ancestral temple to perform the usual rites for the first and the fifteenth of every month.
Looking round carefully, he observed that everything in the temple was undisturbed with no sign of anything amiss.
He therefore made no mention of the strange occurrence the previous night, thinking he must have imagined it in his cups.
The ceremony at an end, he had the temple locked up as before.
After supper Jia Zhen and his wife went over to the Rong Mansion.
He found Jia She and Jia Zheng sitting chatting with the Lady Dowager while the younger men and boys of the family stood around in attendance.
Jia Zhen greeted each in turn, and after a few remarks the old lady invited him to take a seat, which he did on a stool near the door.
How is your cousin Baoyu getting on with his archery these days?
she asked him.
Hes making great progress, not only in his form.
Hes now able to use a stronger bow as well.
Thats good.
But dont let him overtax his strength.
When Jia Zhen had agreed to this she remarked, The mooncakes you sent us yesterday were good.
The melons looked all right but were disappointing.
The cakes were made by a new pastry cook.
Finding them good I ventured to have some made for you, madam, as a token of respect.
Its strange that this years melons arent up to the usual standard.
There was too much rain this summer, remarked Jia Zheng.
Well, the moon has risen now.
Lets go and offer incense.
The old lady rose and leaning on Baoyus shoulder led the way to the Garden.
By now all the Gardens main gates were wide open, big horn-lanterns hanging above.
On the terrace in front of the Hall of Auspicious Shade where incense was burning in screened containers, shielded candles were alight, and melons, cakes and sweetmeats had been set out, Lady Xing and the other ladies were waiting for them.
The bright moonlight, coloured lanterns, scents and incense evoked an ethereal splendour defying description.
The terrace was spread with carpets and silk cushions.
The Lady Dowager washed her hands, burned incense and kowtowed then all the rest followed suit.
After that she said it would be better to enjoy the view of the moon from a height, and ordered the feast to be served in the big pavilion on the ridge of the hill.
Attendants hurried there to make preparations while she had a short rest in the Hall of Auspicious Shade, sipping tea and chatting with her family.
When presently it was announced that all was ready she started up the hill, leaning on some maids shoulders.
The mossy stones may be slippery, warned Lady Wang.
Why not go up in a bamboo chair?
The path is swept every day and its very smooth and wide, countered the old lady.
I may as wall walk to loosen up my old bones.
Jia She and Jia Zheng led the way, followed by two old nurses with horn-lanterns.
Yuanyang, Hupo and Madam You kept beside the old lady to help her along while Lady Xing and the rest clustered behind, and a mere hundred paces brought them to the summit on which stood Convex Emerald Hall, so called because it was built on a promontory.
On its front terrace, partitioned into two by a large screen, were tables and chairs all round in shape to symbolize perfect reunion.
The old lady took the centre seat with Jia She, Jia Zhen, Jia Lian and Jia Rong on her left, on her right ha Zheng, Baoyu, Jia Huan and Jia Lan.
The circle, however, was only half complete, the other half being conspicuously vacant.
I dont usually feel there are too few of us, yet tonight I do, observed the old lady.
Why, in the old days, on an evening like this thered have been thirty to forty menfolk and womenfolk and it would have been ever so lively.
This is too small a party.
We cant ask others to join us, as theyre all celebrating at home with their own parents, so lets get some of the girls to fill up the gap on the other side.
Yingchitn, Tanchun and Xichun were fetched, and Jia Lian, Baoyu and the other boys stood up to offer them seats, taking lower places themselves.
Then the Lady Dowager called for a twig of osmanthus and ordered a serving-woman to beat a drum on the other side of the screen as the twig passed from hand to hand.
Whoever had it when the drumming stopped had to drink a cup of wine and tell a joke as forfeit.
The game started with the old lady passing the twig to Jia She, and so on in turn.
After two rounds Jia Zheng was left with it in his hand and had to drink up, while his children, nephews and nieces nudged or tugged at each other meaningly as they waited, smiling, to hear what joke he would tell.
As his mother was in high spirits he felt constrained to do his best to please her.
If you cant make us laugh, she warned, we shall punish you by making you tell another.
1 have only the one joke, madam.
If you dont find it funny Ill accept the penalty... .There was a man who was hen-pecked....
He was interrupted here by a burst of laughter, as Jia Zheng had never told jokes of this type before.
This must be a good one, said the old lady, laughing.
If you think it good, you must drink another cup, madam.
Agreed.
He went on, This hen-pecked husband never dared go anywhere without his wifes permission.
But on the Moon Festival, going out to do some shopping, he met friends who dragged him home to drink with them.
He got drunk and slept in their house.
The next day when he woke up, quite conscience-stricken, he had to go home to apologize.
It happened that his wife was washing her feet.
She said to him, Well, if you lick my feet Ill forgive you.
So the man had to lick her feet.
But he couldnt help retching, and this so enraged his wife that she threatened to beat him.
What insolence!
she cried.
He fell on his knees in fright and explained, Its not that your feet stink, madam, but all the rice-wine and mooncakes I had yesterday have turned my stomach today.
The whole company laughed, and Jia Zheng at once poured a cup of wine for the old lady.
If thats how you feel, lets replace this wine with spirits, she proposed.
We dont want you to be sick.
Amid general mirth the drumming started once more, stopping this time when Baoyu had the osmanthus.
His fathers presence made him feel on edge, but here he was caught with the twig in his hand.
If I fail to tell a good joke Ill be scolded for being too stupid even to tell a joke, he thought.
If I tell an amusing one hell say Im no good at studying, only able to gab, and blame me all the more.
So Id better get out of it.
He stood up and pleaded, Im no good at telling jokes.
Please set me some other forfeit.
Well then, said Jia Zheng, write an occasional poem with autumn as the rhyme.
If its good youll get a reward.
If not, look out tomorrow!
Were just playing a drinking game, objected the old lady.
Why make him write a poem?
He can do it, Jia Zheng assured her.
At once she sent for paper and a brush.
Jia Zheng warned, Mind you dont use ornate phrases like frozen jade, silver crystal, bright splendour or shining purity.
Your poem must be original.
I want to test your ability after these years of study.
This was just what Baoyu had been hoping for.
He promptly made up four lines and wrote them out, presenting the poem to Jia Zheng who nodded without any comment.
The Lady Dowager took this as a good sign.
How is it?
she asked.
To please her Jia Zheng answered.
Quite a good effort.
But because he hasnt been studying the right books the language lacks distinction.
Thats good enough.
After all, how old is he?
Do you expect him to be a prodigy?
You should encourage him, to make him pay more attention to study in future.
Very well.
Jia Zheng turned to order a nurse, Go and tell the pages in my study to bring two of those fans I brought back from Hainan to give him.
Baoyu having bowed his thanks sat down again, and they went on with the game.
This prize given to Baoyu made Lan now leave his seat to write a poem too, which he handed to his grandfather.
Jia Zheng, very pleased with it, explained the contents of both poems to the old lady.
And she was so delighted that she ordered a prize to be given to Lan too, after which they resumed their seats to continue the game.
This time the drumming stopped when the osmanthus was in Jia Shes hand, and he had to drink a cup and tell a joke.
The son of a certain family was most filial, he began.
One day his mother fell ill, and unable to find physicians able to cure her they called in an old woman who practised acupuncture.
As she knew nothing of the principles of pulse-taking, she diagnosed the illness as fire in the heart which a few acupuncture treatments would set right.
The son asked in alarm, How can you needle her heart?
Wont that kill her?
The old woman said, Theres no need to needle the heart.
Just needling the ribs will do.
He protested, But the heart isnt anywhere near the ribs.
She said, That doesnt matter.
Dont you know that all parents are biased, so that their hearts always incline to one side?
Amid general laughter his mother had to sip some wine.
After a short silence she said, I suppose I should get that old woman to give me some acupuncture treatment too.
Jia She realized then that she took the joke personally and he had offended her by his tactlessness.
At once he stood up to pour her wine and tried to pass it off, and the old lady let the matter drop.
The game went on and this time Huan was caught holding the flower.
Recently he had paid more attention to his studies but, like Baoyu, instead of studying the orthodox classics he preferred to read poems, especially those dealing with the bizarre and supernatural.
When he saw Baoyu awarded a prize for his poem he wanted to show off too, but in his fathers presence dared not suggest it.
Now that his turn had come to pay a forfeit, he also took paper and brush and wrote a four-lined verse which he handed to Jia Zheng.
His father, although quite impressed, could read between the lines a lack of interest in study.
You brothers are alike, he rebuked them both.
All the ideas you express are heterodox.
Youll both turn out undisciplined reprobates.
The ancients spoke of a matchless pair, and thats what you two are only in your case matchless means incorrigible.
The elder brother shamelessly compares himself to Wen Tingyun, and now the younger considers himself another Cao Tang.
Jia She and the others laughed, and Jia She asked to see the poem and was full of praise for it.
This seems to me to show character, he observed.
In our family were not like those poor pedants who must study by the light of reflected snow or glow-worms to pass the examination for the highest degree in order to climb up to exalted positions.
Our sons should study too but if theyre a bit more intelligent than average and look all right, they can hardly fail to get some official post.
Theres no need for them to pore over tomes and become bookworms.
Thats why I like this poem of his it shows the spirit of our noble house.
Thereupon he ordered a servant to fetch some novelties from his room as a reward.
And patting Huan on the head he said with a laugh, Just go on writing like this its our familys style.
Im sure youll inherit our noble ranks in future.
Jia Zhen protested, He was just writing nonsense.
How can these lines foretell the future?
He poured a cup of wine for the old lady and the game went on.
Then the Lady Dowager suggested, You gentlemen can take your leave now.
there must be friends waiting for you outside.
It wont do to neglect them.
Besides, its already past the second watch.
Once youve gone, our girls will be able to enjoy themselves more freely for a while before we retire for the night.
Jia She and the others stopped the game then and after a final toast took the younger men away.
If you want to know the sequel, read the next chapter.
Chapter 76 By Convex Emerald Hail Fluting Fills an Old Lady with Grief In Concave Crystal Lodge Girls Composing a Poem Lament Their Loneliness When ha She and Jia Zheng had led Jia Zhen and the other men away, the Lady Dowager ordered serving-women to remove the screen and turn the two feasts into one.
This they did by clearing the tables, replenishing the refreshments and bringing clean cups and chopsticks while the ladies put on warmer clothes, washed their faces and sipped tea.
As they took seats again around one table the old lady noticed that Baochai and Baoqin were missing they were celebrating the festival at home.
In addition, Li Wan and Xifeng were unwell and the absence of these four made things seem rather quiet.
In the past, she remarked, When the master was away we used to invite Aunt Xue over to enjoy the moon with us and had great fun, until suddenly the thought of his absence, parting husband from wife, mother from son and father from children took away a bit from our pleasure.
This year with the master back our familys reunited, but that means we couldnt ask Aunt Xue and her children over to have a good time with us.
Besides, theyve two relatives staying there this year and couldnt leave them to come over here.
And on top of that, Xifengs unwell.
If she were here joking and laughing, shed make up for ten other people.
This shows nothing can ever be perfect in this world.
She sighed and called for a big cup of heated wine.
This year you and your son are together, said Lady Wang.
Thats an improvement on the past.
Though you had more young people around you then, it still wasnt as good as having your own son back.
True, agreed the old lady.
Thats why Im in such good spirits that I want to drink from a big cup.
You should switch to big cups too.
Lady Xing and the others had to comply.
It was late now, they were tired, and as none of them were good drinkers they were flagging but since the old lady was still in the mood for fun they had no choice but to keep her company.
She ordered rugs to be spread on the steps and mooncakes, water-melons and other refreshments set out there so that the maids could sit down in a circle and enjoy the moon as well.
The moon, now in mid sky, was more dazzlingly lovely than ever.
With such a fine moon we must listen to some fluting, decided the Lady Dowager.
She sent for the girl musicians, telling them, Too many instruments would break the spell.
One flute played in the distance will be enough.
The flutist was just going off when one of Lady Xings matrons brought her a message.
The old lady asked what it was, and the matron answered Just now, on his way home, the Elder Master tripped over a stone and sprained his ankle.
At once the Lady Dowager sent two women to see how he was and urged Lady Xing to hurry back.
As she was taking her leave the old lady added, Zhens wife may as well go with you.
Ill soon be turning in.
Madam You countered gaily, Im not going back today.
I mean to sit up drinking the whole night with our Old Ancestress.
No, that wont do.
A young couple like you ought to be united tonight.
How can you desert your husband for my sake?
Madam You flushed crimson and tittered, What do you take us for, Old Ancestress?
We arent as young as all that weve been married for over a dozen years and are getting on for forty.
Besides, were still in mourning.
Theres no harm in my keeping you company tonight.
How can you ask me to spend it with my husband?
Quite right, chuckled the old lady.
Id forgotten you were still in mourning.
Yes, your poor father-in-law has been dead two years and more how time does fly!
I must drink a big cup as a forfeit for forgetting.
Well, dont go then but stay and keep me company.
Rongs wife can go back with her great-aunt.
So Madan You told her daughter-in-law to accompany Lady Xing, and they mounted their carriages at the gate, then left.
In the Garden, the Lady Dowager led her party to enjoy the osmanthus in bloom, after which they returned to the feast and fresh wine was heated.
They were chatting when, all of a sudden, from under the osmanthus came wafting the sweet, dulcet, mellifluous sound of fluting.
In the bright moonlight and fresh breeze, with the sky above a void, the earth utterly still, this music dispelled all care and anxiety.
Every voice hushed, they sat appreciating it in silence.
The fluting went on for the time it takes to drink two cups of tea.
When it stopped, everyone exclaimed in admiration.
Then warm wine was poured again.
Wasnt that delightful?
asked the old lady, beaming.
Really lovely, madam!
they replied.
Wed never have thought of such a thing.
We need you to show us how to enjoy ourselves.
This still isnt good enough.
Whats needed is slow music, the slower the better.
They had been eating melon-seed oil mooncakes stuffed with pine kernels from the Palace, and the old lady now ordered one of these to be sent with a big cup of warm wine to the flutist, with instructions to drink it slowly then play another melody to the very best of her ability.
Some serving-women had just gone off on this errand when back came the two matrons sent to ask after Jia She.
We saw His Lordship, they reported.
His right instep is a bit swollen, but hes taken some medicine and the pain is less now.
Its nothing serious.
The Lady Dowager nodded.
I worry too much about my children, she sighed.
He calls me biased, yet I feel such concern for him.
She repeated Jia Shes joke to Lady Wang and Madam You.
It was only a joke after drinking, said Lady Wang soothingly.
Anyone can make a slip.
He cant possibly have had you in mind, madam.
Why take it to heart?
Yuanyang had now brought a soft hood and a cape.
Its late, she said.
Therell be dew, and you may catch cold in the wind unless you put more on.
After a little while you should go and rest.
Why hurry me when Im in high spirits?
asked the old lady.
Im not drunk, am I?
Im going to sit up till dawn.
She called for more wine, put on the hood and the cape, and went on drinking and joking with the rest.
Now from the shade of the osmanthus trees they heard the melodiOUS strains of fluting again, sadder this time than before, and all kept silent.
The old lady was under the influence of wine, and in the still night, under the bright moon, the plaintive music touched her heart and she could not hold hack her tears.
The others were painfully affected too but after some time, noticing her distress, they began to talk gaily to cheer her up and called for more wine, directing the flutist to stop.
Ive learned one joke, announced Madam You.
Let me tell it to amuse our Old Ancestress.
The old lady forced a smile.
So much the better.
A family had four sons.
The eldest had only one eye, the second only one ear, the third only one nostril, the fourth had all his organs but was dumb....
Seeing that the Lady Dowager had closed her eyes, she broke off and with Lady Wang softly asked if she was awake.
The old lady opened her eyes.
Im not sleepy, just closing my eyes to rest them a hit.
Go on with your joke, Im listening.
Lady Wang demurred, Its already the fourth watch, madam, windy and with heavy dew.
Wont you go and rest?
You can enjoy the moon again tomorrow its still bright on the sixteenth.
How can it he so late?
It really is.
The girls couldnt stay up any longer theyve all gone off to sleep.
The Lady Dowager looked around and found only Tanchun there the rest had slipped away.
All right, she said with a smile.
Youre not used to staying up all night either.
And we shouldnt tire the girls, weak and delicate as they are.
So poor Tanchuns the only one still here.
Youd better go too.
Its time the party broke up.
She rose, took a sip of tea, then wrapped the cape around her and was carried off by two women in a small bamboo sedan-chair which they had ready.
The others followed her out of the Garden.
The serving-women clearing up discovered that one fine porcelain cup was missing.
They asked the others, Did one of you break a cup?
If so, bring us the pieces to hand in as evidence.
Otherwise we may be accused of stealing it.
The others denied having broken anything.
But one of the maids attending the young ladies may have dropped a cup, they suggested.
Try to remember, or just go and ask them.
Thats right, cried the woman in charge of the tea-services.
I remember Cuilu taking a cup.
Ill ask her.
She went to look for Cuilu, who happened to come towards her along the covered walk accompanied by Zijuan.
Cuilu called out, Has the old lady left?
And do you know where our young ladies are?
Ive come to ask you for a cup, but you ask me for your mistresses instead.
Id just taken Miss Xiangyun some tea when she suddenly disappeared.
Her Ladyship said just now theyd all gone to bed.
You must have been playing about somewhere not to notice.
They cant have slipped off quietly to bed.
They must be strolling about.
Maybe, seeing the old lady leave, they went ahead to see her off.
Lets go to her place to look for them.
Once we find them your teacup will turn up too.
You can fetch it first thing tomorrow.
Whats the hurry?
Provided I know where it is, theres no hurry.
Ill come for it tomorrow.
The woman went back then to clear away while Zijuan and Cuilu made for the old ladys quarters.
Daiyu and Xiangyun had not gone to bed.
This big family reunion in the ha mansion, which the Lady Dowager still complained was less lively than in the old days, as well as her reference to Baochai and Baoqin celebrating at home with their own family, had made Daiyu feel so disconsolate that she had slipped out to the corridor to shed tears.
As Baoyu was listless and distraught these days because Qingwens illness had taken a turn for the worse, when his mother urged him to go to bed off he went.
Tanchun was in no mood for enjoyment either, with family troubles weighing on her mind.
And as neither Yingchun nor Xichun was too intimate with Daiyu, that left only Xiangyun to comfort her.
You should have more sense, Xiangyun told her, than to let this scene upset you.
I have no family either, but 71 dont take it to heart the way you do.
With your poor health you ought to look after yourself.
Its too bad of Baochai and Baoqin.
They kept saying our club must meet to celebrate the Moon Festival this year by writing a poem together, but now theyve abandoned us and gone off to celebrate it on their own.
Instead of our meeting to write a poem, the men and boys of the house have had things all their own way.
As the old saying goes How can an outsider be allowed to sleep beside ones bed?
Well, if they wont join in, why dont the two of us write a poem together?
Tomorrow we can shame them with it.
As Xiangyun was trying to cheer her up, not wanting to spoil her fun Daiyu replied, All right, But its too noisy here to have any poetic inspiration.
Enjoying the moonlight on this hill is good.
hut its better still by the water.
You know that lake at the foot of this hill and Concave Crystal Lodge by the inlet there?
A lot of thought went into designing this Garden.
The crest of the hill is called Convex Emerald, and the creek in the lake below Concave Crystal.
Convex and concave, so seldom used before, make fresh, original names.
And these two places - one above, one below one bright, one dark one hill, one water seem specially designed for enjoying the moonlight.
Those who like to look at the moon from a height can come here those who prefer to see its reflection in water can go there.
But as these two words are usually pronounced wa and tu theyre considered rather uncouth.
Thats why Lu Yous line The old inkstone, slightly concave, brims with ink was scoffed at as vulgar.
Ridiculous, isnt it?
Lu You wasnt the only one to use this word.
so did many other writers of old - Jiang Yan in his poetic essay On Green Moss, Dongfang Shuo in his Miraculous and Strange Records, and Zhang Yanyuan in his Anecdotes on Painting when he described the frescoes Zhang Sengyou 2 painted in a monastery.
Why, there are too many instances to quote.
But nowadays people not knowing this think these vulgar words.
To tell you the truth, Daiyu continued, Im the one who suggested both names.
It was when we proposed names for places which hadnt yet been given any and marked their localities.
They were taken to the Palace and shown to Elder Sister who sent them to uncle, and he was delighted.
He said if only hed known hed have asked us girls to help with the names, and he accepted them all without changing a word.
Well, lets go to concave Crystal Lodge.
They walked down the hill, round a bend, and reached the lake.
A path by the bamboo railings along its bank led to Lotus Fragrance Pavilion.
The little building here, nestling at the foot of the hill on which stood Convex Emerald Hall, had been given the name Concave Crystal because it was on low ground close to the water.
As it was so small, with few rooms, there were only two serving-women on night duty and knowing that the ladies at Convex Emerald Hall would not be requiring their services, after enjoying their share of mooncakes, sweetmeats, wine and dishes, they had put out the lights and gone to bed.
So theyre asleep good, said Xiangyun when they saw that the place was dark.
Lets enjoy the water and moonlight under this awning.
Sitting on two bamboo stools they gazed at the bright moon in the sky and then at its reflection in the lake, the moon above and its reflection below rivalling each other in magnificence.
It was like being in some mermaids crystal palace.
As a breeze ruffled the green water of the lake they felt thoroughly refreshed.
What fun it would be to drink now in a boat on the lake!
exclaimed Xiangyun.
If we were at my home Id take a boat out.
As the ancients often said What enjoyment can there be if everything is perfect?
remarked Daiyu.
To my mind this is quite good enough.
Its only natural for men to hanker for more.
Didnt the old people often say The poor think the rich have all their hearts desire.
Try to disabuse them and they wont believe you not unless they grow rich themselves.
Take the two of us for instance.
Although weve lost our parents were living in luxury, yet we have a lot to upset us.
We arent the only ones.
Even their Ladyships, Baoyu, Tanchun and the others cant have their way in everything big and small, even if they have good reason for wanting something.
That applies to everyone.
Especially girls like us who are living with other families, not our own....
Afraid Daiyu would start grieving again, Xiangyun interposed, Well, enough of this idle talk.
Lets get on with our poem.
As she was talking they heard melodious fluting.
Their Ladyships are in high spirits today, Daiyu remarked.
This fluting is pleasant and should give us inspiration.
As we both like five-character lines, lets make regulated couplets in that metre.
What rhymes shall we use?
Suppose we count the bars from this end of the railing to the other to decide which category of rhymes to choose.
For example, if its sixteen well use the Xian rhymes.
Wouldnt that make a change?
Thats certainly original.
So they got up to count the bars and found there were thirteen in all.
Xiangyun chuckled, It would be thirteen!
That means the yuan group of rhymes.
There arent too many for a long poem of couplets, so it may be awkward.
Still, you must make a start.
Well see which of us does better.
But we ought to have paper and a brush to write it down.
We can copy it out tomorrow.
Theres no danger of forgetting it before then.
All right then.
Ill start with a pat phrase.
Daiyu declaimed -786 Mid-autumns fifteenth night is here again.... Xiangyun reflected, then said As on the Feast of Lanterns we stroll round.
The sky above is sprinkled with bright stars Daiyu continued -786 And everywhere sweet strings and pipes resound.
Goblets fly here and there as men carouse....
I like that last line, Xiangyun approved.
I must find something good to match it.
After a moments thought she said -786 No house but has its windows opened wide.
The breeze that softly fans the air is chill Youve capped my attempt, admitted Daiyu.
But your second line is trite.
You should go from strength to strength.
A long poem with tricky rhymes had to be padded out a bit.
We can use some good lines later.
If you dont, you should be ashamed!
Daiyu went on -786 But bright as day the fine night scene outside.
The greybeard grabbing for a cake is mocked Thats no good, laughed Xiangyun.
Its not classical.
Youre putting me on the spot by using an everyday incident like that.
Id say you hadnt read many books.
This reference to cakes is a classical allusion.
You should read the Tang dynasty records before you talk.
Well, you havent foxed me.
Ive got it.
Xiangyun capped the verse -786 Green girls share melons laughing themselves silly.
How fresh the scent of jade osmanthus bloom.... That really had no classical source, protested Daiyu.
Tomorrow well look it up for everyone to see.
Lets not waste time now.
Anyway your second line is no good, padded out with expressions like jade osmanthus.
She continued -786 How bright the regal gold of the day-lily.
3 Wax candles set the sumptuous feast aglow You got off cheap with day-lily, observed Xiangyun.
That ready-made rhyme saved you a lot of trouble.
But there was no need to drag in praise of the sovereign on their behalf.
Besides, the line after that is mediocre.
If you hadnt used jade osmanthus.
I wouldnt have had to match it with day-lily, would I ?
And we have to bring in some opulent images to make it true to life.
Then Xiangyun continued -9116 1 -786 Wild drinking games the splendid park confuse.
Opposing sides obey the self-same rule That last lines good but rather hard to match.
Daiyu thought for a little then said -786 Those guessing riddles hear three different clues.
The dice is thrown and wins the dots are red.
... Xiangyun said, I like your three clues, making something colloquial poetic.
But you shouldnt have brought in dice again in the next line.
She continued -786 Drums speed the blossom passed from hand to hand.
The courtyard scintillates with limpid light Daiyu commented, You capped my line all right but fell down again on the next.
Why keep padding it out with thebreeze and the moon all the time?
I havent brought in the moon yet.
And anyway a subject like this can do with some purple patches.
Well, well let it go for the time being.
We can consider it again tomorrow.
Daiyu went on -786 A silver splendour merges sky and land.
For hosts and guests alike the same requital Why go on referring to others?
Why not speak about us?
Xiangyun resumed -786 Verses are written turn and turn about.
One leaning on the barricade to think Yes, this is where we come in, Daiyu remarked, then continued -786 One tapping the door 4 to make the scene stand out.
Engrossed as ever, though the wine is drunk Now were getting somewhere!
Xiangyun went on -786 They savour the last watches of the night.
Then comes a gradual end to talk and laughter.... Heres where each line gets more difficult, observed Daiyu, continuing -786 Noughts left now but the waning frosty light.
By the steps, dew-drenched hibiscus blooms at dawn Xiangyun exclaimed, Now what paroled shall I choose?
Let me see.
She stood up to think, her hands clasped behind her back, then said with a smile, All right.
Luckily Ive hit on a word.
I was nearly floored.
She resumed In the courtyard, mist the albizzia shrouds.
Autumn rapids pour forth through the core of rocks Daiyu sprang up with a cry of admiration.
This clever imp had really kept some good lines up her sleeve.
Fancy coming out with albizzia how did you think of that?
Luckily for me, yesterday I dipped into the Selected Writings of Different Dynasties and found this name.
I didnt know what tree it was and wanted to look it up, but Cousin Baochai said, Theres no need for that.
This is the tree whose leaves open out in the daytime and fold up at night.
Not trusting her, I checked up and found she was right.
So it seems Cousin Baochai really knows a lot.
Its just the word to use here, and your line about autumn rapids is even more felicitous, better than all the other lines.
I shall have to cudgel my brains to match it, but I cant possibly think of anything as good.
After a little reflection she went on Wind-swept leaves gather at the root of clouds.
Lonely and pure the Lady of the Star The parallel will pass but the second line is a comedown, was Xiangyuns verdict.
Still, at least the sentiment suits the scene.
You havent just used an allusion for padding.
She continued The Silver Toad 5 puffs and deflates the moon.
Elixirs are prepared by the Jade Hare Daiyu simply nodded, then capped this The goddess flies towards the Palace of Cold Void.
One soars on high to greet Weaving Maid and Cowherd Xiangyun looking up at the moon nodded and continued One sails a barque to the heavenly maiden fair.
The orb, for ever changing, wanes and waxes Youre using the same image again, objected Daiyu, but went on -786 At each months start and end but its ghost is there.
Clepsydras water had wellnigh run dry Before Xiangyun could continue, Daiyu pointed at a dark shadow in the pool and exclaimed, Look there!
That looks like a man in the dark.
Could it be a ghost?
Youre imagining things again.
Im not afraid of ghosts.
Ill hit it.
Xiangyun bent to pick up a stone and threw it into the pool.
Splash!
Ripples radiated out to shatter the moons reflection, which then rounded out again.
When this had happened several times, they heard a cry in the dark shadows and a white stork took wing straight towards Lotus Fragrance Pavilion.
So thats all it was, chuckled Daiyu.
I didnt think it could be a stork.
It gave me quite a fright.
How amusing its given me an idea.
And Xiangyun declaimed -786 The lamp by the window is no longer bright.
A storks shadow flit across the chilly pool Daiyu exclaimed in admiration again, stamping her foot.
This confounded stork had helped her!
This line is even more original than the one about autumn rapids.
How am I going to match it?
The only parallel for shadow is spirit.
A stork flitting across the chilly pool sounds so natural, apt, vivid and original too!
I shall have to give up.
We can find something if we both think hard, or else leave it till tomorrow.
Daiyu still looking up at the sky ignored her.
After a while she suddenly laughed and said, You neednt gloat.
Ive got it.
Listen.
-786 The poets spirit is buried in cold moonlight.
Xiangyun clapped her hands.
Very good indeed!
The only possible parallel.
Burying the poets spirit wonderful.
She added with a sigh, Of course that lines distinctive, but its rather too melancholy.
Now that youre unwell you shouldnt make such strangely sad and depressing lines which sound ill-omened.
Daiyu chuckled, If I hadnt, how was Ito beat you?
But I worked so hard on it, I havent got the next line yet.... Just then someone stepped out from behind the rocks on the other side of the balustrade and laughed.
A fine poem, a fine poem!
she cried.
But it is too melancholy.
Youd better not go on.
If you continue in this way, these two lines wont stand out so well and the poem may seem padded and forced.
Daiyu and Xiangyun, caught unawares, were startled to see Miaoyu.
Where did you spring from?
they asked.
Knowing you were all enjoying the moon and listening to fine fluting, I came out to admire this clear lake and bright moonlight too and on my way here suddenly heard the two of you poeticizing, which seemed the height of refinement.
So I stopped to listen.
Youve made some good lines but as a whole its too mournful or was that fated?
Thats why I stepped out to stop you.
The party broke up long ago and the old ladys left the Garden.
Most of the others here must be asleep, and your maids will be wondering whats become of you.
Arent you afraid of catching cold?
Come back to my place now for a cup of tea.
The day will break any minute.
Id no idea it was so late, said Daiyu.
The three girls went to Green Lattice Nunnery.
They found the lamp before the shrine still lit and the incense in the censer not yet burnt out, but the few old nuns there had gone to bed leaving only one young maid dozing on a hassock.
Miaoyu roused her to brew tea.
Then came a sudden knocking on the gate, and the maid opened it to admit Zijuan and Cuilu with some old nurses come to look for Daiyu and Xiangyun.
Seeing them drinking tea they said laughingly, You had us searching the whole Garden even Madam Xues place for you.
We were looking just now in that small pavilion at the foot of the hill, and luckily the night-watchers were awake.
They told us two people had been talking under the awning outside.
Someone else joined them and they spoke of going to the nunnery.
Thats how weve tracked you down.
Miaoyu told the maid to take them to another room to have a rest and some tea.
She herself brought out a brush, inkstone, paper and ink and asked the girls to recite their composition, which she wrote down from start to finish.
Finding her in such a good mood Daiyu said, Ive never seen you before in such high spirits.
If not for that I wouldnt presume to ask for your opinion.
Is this poem worth polishing?
If you think not, well burn it but if it is, will you please make some corrections?
I wont venture to make rash comments, but as youve already used twenty-two rhymes I expect you ye produced your most striking images and if you go on you may tire yourselves out.
Id like to round it off, only Im afraid I may spoil it.
Daiyu had never read any poems by Miaoyu, and as the young nun was so eager she urged her, Please do!
That may make out feeble attempts seem passable.
We must wind up the poem by reverting to the present situation.
If we pass over true feelings and incidents and simply search for striking images and expressions, well be losing our identity and departing from the main theme.
Quite right, they concurred.
Miaoyu picked up her brush and wrote her addition straight off, then showed it to the other two, saying Dont laugh at me!
I feel this is the only way to get back to the theme.
Then a few sad lines earlier on wont matter.
They took what she had written and read -786 The incense in gold tripods has burnt out, And ice-white oil in the jade basin forms Fluting recalls a widows lamentations As a small serving-maid the silk quilt warms.
On empty curtains a bright phoenix hangs.
The idle screens gay ducks and drakes enfold Thick dew has made the moss more slippery, And heavy frost makes bamboo hard to hold.
Strolling again beside the winding lake, Climbing once more the solitary hill, The rugged boulders seem contending ghosts.
The gnarled trees wolves and tigers crouching still.
Dawn lights the tortoise pedestal of stone, On outer trellis now the thick dew falls.
A thousand woodland birds begin to stir, In vales below a single gibbon calls.
How can we stray on a familiar road?
Why ask the way to fountain-heads we know?
The bells chime in Green Lattice Nunnery, The cocks in Paddy-Sweet Cottage start to crow.
With cause for joy why grieve excessively, Or needlessly display anxiety?
A maidens feelings none but she can vent To whom can she confide her nicety?
Speak not of weariness though night is done, Over fresh tea let us talk on and on.
She then appended the title A Poem Written Collectively with Thirty-five Rhymes While Celebrating the Mid-Autumn Festival in Grand View Garden.
Daiyu and Xiangyun heaped praise on this ending.
Weve been ignoring a talent right under our eyes, yet trying to seek what is far away!
they exclaimed.
We have such a superior poetess here, yet every day we pretend to be able to write.
We can polish it tomorrow, suggested Miaoyu.
Itll soon be light, and after all we must get some rest.
Then the other two took their leave and went off with their maids.
Miaoyu saw them out of the gate and watched until they were out of sight before closing the gate and returning to her room.
Meanwhile Cuilu had told Xiangyun, Theyre sitting up waiting for us in Madam Zhus place.
Lets go back now.
You can call in there on the way and tell them to go to bed, replied Xiangyun.
If I go, Ill only disturb them.
Id better raise a rumpus in Miss Lins place instead.
In Bamboo Lodge half the maids were already asleep.
Having undressed and washed, Daiyu and Xiangyun went to bed Zijuan put down the gauze bed-curtain and took away the lamp, closing the door behind her.
However, Xiangyun could not sleep in a strange bed.
As for Daiyu, being anaemic she often suffered from insomnia too, and having stayed up past her usual hour she now felt wide-awake.
So the two of them tossed and turned.
Daiyu asked, Why arent you asleep yet?
I cant sleep well in a strange bed thats my trouble.
And Im no longer sleepy, so Im just resting.
What about you?
Ive had insomnia a long time now, Daiyu sighed.
In a whole year I probably have only ten nights of good sleep.
No wonder youre unwell then!
If you want to know what followed, read the next chapter.
Chapter 77 A Pretty Maid Wrongly Accused Dies an Untimely Death Lovely Actresses Sever Worldly Ties and Join a Nunnery After the Moon Festival, as Xifeng though well enough to leave her bed was not yet fully recovered, Lady Wang continued to summon the doctor to attend her every day as before.
The fortifying pills he prescribed required, among other ingredients, two ounces of the best ginseng.
Lady Wang sent for some.
But after a long search, all her maids could find was a small box of roots no thicker than hairpins, of such poor quality that she made them look again.
Presently they came back with a packet of ginseng rootlets.
When we dont want it theres plenty when we do theres none, she exclaimed in exasperation.
Time and again Ive told you to make sure to put things back in the right place, but you never listen, just dumping them anywhere.
You dont know the value of ginseng.
When we need it we have to pay through the nose, and whats bought outside may not be efficacious.
Caiyun explained, This seems to be all we have.
Last time Lady Xing came to ask for some, you gave her our whole stock.
Nonsense.
Go and make a more careful search.
This time Caiyun brought back a few packets of herbs.
What these are I dont know, she said.
Please have a look, madam.
There isnt anything else.
Lady Wang opened the packets but could not recall what they were, and there was no ginseng among them.
She sent to ask Xifeng whether she had any.
A few rootlets only, was the reply, not of the best quality either, and she needed these for her medicine every day.
Lady Wang then applied to Lady Xing, who said it was because she had run out that she had asked her for ginseng the other day.
Then Lady Wang had no other recourse but to apply in person to the old lady.
The latter at once ordered Yuanyang to fetch all she had, and this proved to be quite a large packet of ginseng roots each as thick as a mans finger.
Yuanyang weighed out two ounces.
Lady Wang gave these to Zhou Ruis wife, instructing her to send them to the doctor along with the herbs which they could not identify, and get him to label these.
Before long Mrs. Zhou brought them back.
All the herbs have been properly wrapped up and labelled, she said.
But as for this ginseng, madam, although its of the best quality and costs more than thirty taels of silver an ounce now, its too old.
Ginseng isnt like other medicines.
No matter how fine the roots, after a hundred years they turn to ashes.
There havent turned to ashes yet ,but they have dried up and lost their potency.
So the doctor hopes youll take this back and get him some fresher, whatever the quality.
Lady Wang lowered her head in thought.
Theres nothing for it then, she concluded at last, but to go and buy two ounces.
Not interested in examining the other packets she had them put away, then told Zhou Ruis wife, Get the servants outside to buy two ounces of good ginseng.
If the old lady happens to ask just tell her we used hers no need to say any more.
Baochai who was present put in, One moment, aunt.
Theres no good ginseng to be bought outside.
Whenever they get a whole root they cut it into two or three pieces and graft other rootlets on to these to be sold, with others, as if they were whole roots so the size is nothing to go by.
Our shop often does business with those ginseng dealers.
I can easily ask mother to get my brother to send an assistant to approach one of them and buy two ounces of good whole roots.
Its worth spending a few taels extra to get the best.
Thats a splendid idea!
exclaimed Lady Wang.
Its good of you to take the trouble.
Baochai came back some time later to report that someone had been sent, and they should have the ginseng that evening in time to prepare the medicine the next morning.
Lady Wang was greatly relieved.
This is like the proverb The pomade-vendor uses water for her own hair, she sighed.
Goodness knows how much weve given away, but when we need any ourselves we have to ask for help right and left!
Ginsengs expensive, rejoined Baochai with a smile.
After all, its only medicine, and such things should be given away to help others.
We shouldnt hoard them the way vulgar people do.
Lady Wang nodded.
Quite right.
Baochai left then, and as no one else was about Lady Wang summoned Zhou Ruis wife to ask the result of their recent search of the Garden.
Mrs. Zhou had discussed this with Xifeng and agreed to keep nothing back.
Her description of all that had happened shocked and enraged Lady Wang.
But she was in a quandary too, as Siqi was Yingchuns maid and both of them belonged to Lady Xings house.
She proposed reporting the matter to her.
Mrs. Zhou demurred, The other day she scolded Wang Shanbaos wife and boxed her ears for being too officious.
So now Mrs. Wangs shamming ill and wont leave home especially as Siqis her granddaughter and she fell into her own trap.
All she can do now is pretend it never happened and hope things will quiet down.
If we report this to Her Ladyship, she may suspect us of trying to stir up more trouble.
Better take Siqi to her with the evidence, and after seeing it theyll at most give her a beating and assign a different maid here.
Wouldnt that be simpler?
If instead of that we just report it, Lady Xing may make excuses in order to shift the responsibility.
Why doesnt your mistress deal with it, then?
she may ask.
Why report it to me?
That would cause delay.
And if Siqi took this chance to kill herself, that would make matters worse.
The women whove been watching over her the last few days are liable to grow slack.
Suppose they do, and something happens what then?
After some thought Lady Wang decided, Youre right.
We must hurry up and see to this before dealing with those vixens in our own house.
Thereupon Mrs. Zhou called together some of her colleagues and led them to Yingchuns compound.
She told Yingchun, The mistress says Siqi has grown up and her mother keeps coming to ask to have her back, so Her Ladyships giving her back to be married off.
Shes to leave today.
Another good maid will be chosen to wait on you, miss.
She ordered Siqi to pack up her things and leave.
Yingchuns eyes filled with tears, for she hated to part with the girl.
But as other maids had told her in confidence about the events of that evening, fond as she was of Siqi there was nothing she could do where the question of morality was concerned.
Siqi had begged her to intervene on her behalf and let her stay on however, Yingchun did not have a ready tongue and was too weak to reach a decision.
How cruel you are, miss!
sobbed Siqi, seeing that her fate was sealed.
Youve kept me hoping the last two days, yet wont say a good word for me now.
Zhou Ruis wife demanded, You dont expect the young lady to keep you, do you?
Even if she did, how could you face the others in the Garden?
Take my advice and pack up quickly to slip away without anyone noticing.
Thatll look better for us all.
Yingchun said tearfully, I dont know what wicked thing youve done, but asking to keep you would spoil my reputation too.
Just look at Ruhua she was here for some years as well, but she left when she was told to.
And youre not the only two.
All the girls in the Garden will have to leave, I suppose, when theyre grown up.
Since we have to part sooner or later, you may as well go now.
After all, the young lady sees things more clearly, agreed Mrs. Zhou.
Others will be sent away later, dont you worry.
Siqi had no alternative but to kowtow to Yingchun and take her leave of the other maids.
In tears she whispered, If you hear that Im in bad trouble, miss, do put in a good word for me for old times sake.
Yingchun with tears in her own eyes promised, I will.
Then Zhou Ruis wife and her colleagues led Siqi out, instructing two serving-women to carry away all her things.
They had not gone far when Xiuju overtook them and, wiping her tears, handed Siqi a silk package.
This is from our young lady, she said.
Now that mistress and maid are parting, she wants you to have this keepsake.
This gift reduced Siqi to tears again.
She and Xiuju wept together until Mrs. Zhou lost patience and insisted that tley must be on their way.
Please be kind and wait a little, aunties, Siqi sobbed.
Let me say -400 goodbye to the others here whove been like sisters to me all these years.
Mrs. Zhou and the rest had business of their own to attend to and felt this task an extra imposition, in addition to which they bitterly resented the airs these maids put on.
Naturally they had no patience with such talk.
Get a move on and stop dilly-dallying, they scoffed.
Weve more important things to see to.
Are you one flesh and blood that you have to say goodbye?
Theyd only laugh at you.
Shilly-shallying wont get you anywhere.
So come along.
With that they marched straight on to the back side gate, and Siqi afraid to say more had no choice but to follow.
It so happened that Baoyu came back just then from outside.
When he saw Siqi being led off, followed by women carrying things, he guessed that she had been dismissed for good.
He had heard of the commotion that night and the happenings earlier in the day which had led to Qingwens relapse but though carefully questioned, she herself could not tell what had given rise to it all.
The day before he had seen Ruhua leave, and now it was Siqis turn.
In consternation he barred the way and asked where they were going.
The stewards wives knew Baoyus quirky ways and did not want him to pester and delay them.
This is none of your business, said Mrs. Zhou with a smile.
Get back to your books.
Good sisters, please wait a moment, he begged.
I have something to say.
The mistress ordereu us not to lose any time.
And what can you have to say?
We are just carrying out Her Ladyships orders.
Thats our only concern.
Siqi caught hold of his sleeve.
They cant disobey orders, she sobbed.
But please go and beg Her Ladyship to let me off.
Baoyus heart bled for her.
Tears started to his eyes.
I dont know what dreadful thing youve done, he cried.
Qingwens fallen ill with anger, and now youre leaving.
All of you are leaving!
Whats to become of me?
At this Mrs. Zhou scolded Siqi, Youre no longer a deputy young mistress now.
Ill beat you if you dont do as youre told.
Dont think you still have your young mistress to protect you and can go on making any trouble you please.
So come along quietly instead of tugging at Master Bao.
What way is that to behave?
They dragged Siqi off before she could say any more and Baoyu, afraid they might report this, could only glare after them.
When they had gone some distance he shook a finger at them and swore How strange!
How is it that once girls marry they get contaminated by men and become so obnoxious even worse than men!
The matrons on duty at the gate burst out laughing.
Whatever is Master Bao talking about?
they cried.
Goodness knows where he gets hold of such nonsense.
To tease him they asked, Do you mean that all girls are good and all married women bad?
Thats right.
Baoyu nodded.
Of course.
Were so stupid, they chuckled, theres something else wed like you to explain.... Before they could finish some nurses came along.
Watch out!
they cried.
Mind you gather together all those on duty and stay at your posts.
Her Ladyships come to the Garden on a tour of inspection.
She may very well come here.... Then one of them ordered someone to fetch the relatives of that girl Qingwen in Happy Red Court and wait here to take her away.
Buddha be praised!
they chortled.
At last Heaven has opened its eyes.
Once this pest is gone we shall have a little peace.
Baoyu, as soon as he heard that his mother was coming to make a check-up, guessed that it boded trouble for Qingwen.
So he dashed off too soon to hear the nurses jubilation.
He found Happy Red Court packed with people.
His mother, sitting there with a face like thunder, ignored him.
Qingwen was wasting away, having touched no food for four or five days but now with dishevelled hair she was dragged from the kang and two women carried her off.
Shes only to take the clothes she has on, ordered Lady Wang.
The finer ones are to be kept for better maids.
She then summoned all the maids for her inspection.
This was because Wang Shanbaos wife had taken advantage of Lady Wangs anger a few days previously to slander Qingwen, as well as others in the Garden whom she disliked.
And Lady Wang had taken all this to heart.
As she was busy during the festival she let things slide for a couple of days, but now she had come to inspect all the maids in the Garden, not only to dismiss Qingwen, but also because it had reached her ears that as Baoyu was growing up, his maids who were hussies were teaching him bad ways.
As this was more serious than Qingwens case, Lady Wang meant to examine all the maids from Xiren down to the girls assigned rough work.
Which is the one, she asked, born on the same day as Baoyu?
Since the girl in question dared not answer, an old nurse pointed her out.
Huixiang here, also called Sier.
Lady Wang looked at her closely.
She saw that this maid, while by no means half as pretty as Qingwen, was not unattractive and looked intelligent.
She dressed rather conspicuously too.
Lady Wang smiled scornfully.
Another shameless slut!
She said in secret that a boy and girl born on the same day, at the same hour, are destined to marry.
It was you who told him that.
Do you think because we live apart I dont know?
Though I dont often come to the Garden, I keep a close watch on what youre up to here.
Baoyu is my only son.
How can I allow hussies like you to lead him astray?
At mention of what she had said in confidence to Baoyu, Sier blushed and hung her head, weeping.
Having ordered her to be fetched away by her parents and married off, Lady Wang asked Which is the creature called Ye1U Xiongnu?
The nurses pointed out Fangguan.
Oh, an actress?
No wonder shes a vamp.
When we offered last time to release you, you wouldnt go.
Well then, you should have behaved yourself, instead of making mischief and getting Baoyu to carry on so wildly.
Id never dare!
pleaded Fangguan with a smile.
So youre talking back!
Tell me this The year before last when we went to the Imperial Sepulchre, who coaxed Baoyu to bring that girl Liu Wuer here?
Luckily she died a premature death otherwise, if youd got her in, youd have ganged up to make more trouble in the Garden.
You even bully your own foster-mother, to say nothing of other people.
She sent for this woman to take Fangguan away and find her a husband outside, saying she could keep all her things.
She also ordered all the young actresses assigned to the different girls quarters the previous year to clear out of the Garden, be fetched away and married off.
This naturally delighted their foster-mothers, who came to kowtow their thanks.
Then Lady Wang had the whole house searched.
Any of Baoyus things which looked suspicious were to be confiscated and taken to her quarters.
This will clean things up, she said, and save gossip in future.
She also warned Xiren and Sheyue, Be careful now.
If you overstep the mark I shant let you off either.
She had them look up an almanac, which indicated that it would be inauspicious to move that year.
So Baoyu had to stay in the Garden for the time being.
Next year well move him out, declared Lady Wang.
That will stop further trouble.
This said, she led her attendants off to inspect other compounds, not even waiting for tea.
But to revert to Baoyu He had expected nothing more than a perfunctory check-up, little dreaming that his mother would come down on them like a thunderbolt, taking them to task for things they had said in secret which she had got word for word.
He knew there was no saving the situation and wished he could die then and there but as she was in such a rage he dared not make a false move or utter a word.
He followed her to Seeping Fragrance Pavilion, where she told him Go back and apply yourself to your books.
You may be questioned tomorrow.
Your father was fuming just now.
On his way back he wondered who had been telling tales.
No outsiders knew what went on in his house, so how could his mother be so well informed?
In a quandary, he returned to his room and found Xiren weep- ing there.
Distressed by the less of his favourite maid, he threw himself on the bed to start weeping too.
Xiren knew that Qingwens dismissal was the only thing that really mattered to him.
She nudged him.
Its no use crying.
Get up and listen to me.
Qingwens on the mend, and going home like this shell be able to rest quietly for a few days.
If you really dont want to let her go, wait till your mother has got over her anger then go and beg the old lady to recall her.
That shouldnt be difficult.
The mistress did this in a fit of anger, just because she was taken in by some spiteful talk.
I cant imagine what her crime was, he sobbed.
The mistress just feels that someone with her good looks is bound to be rather flighty, and there cant be any peace with such a beauty here -400 thats why she dislikes her.
She prefers plain, ungainly girls like us.
Even so, how could she know our secret jokes?
No outsiders could have passed them on.
Thats whats so odd.
Have you ever shown any discretion?
When you get worked up you dont care whos about.
Manys the time Ive tipped you a wink or signalled to you on the sly, but before you took the hint others had already noticed.
How is it my mother knows all the faults of the other girls but not those of you, Sheyue and Qiuwen?
Touched on the raw Xiren lowered her head for a while, at a loss for an answer.
Yes, thats odd, she agreed presently.
We three have spoken carelessly in fun too, but the mistress seems to have forgotten that.
Maybe she has other things on her mind and wont send us away until shes dealt with them.
Youre known as a paragon of virtue, he retorted.
And those two are influenced by you.
So how could you slip up so as to deserve punishment?
Fangguan now, being so young and a bit too smart, cant help bullying people and offending them.
In Siers case, its my fault.
It started that day when I quarrelled with you and called her in to wait on me.
That made her uppish and led to this trouble today.
But Qingwens like you , she was transferred here as a child from the old ladys quarters.
She may be better-looking, but what does that - matter?
And though shes outspoken and has a sharp tongue shes never done you any harm.
I suppose its her good looks that were her undoing.
He burst into tears again.
Inferring from this that Baoyu suspected her of telling tales, Xiren did not like to pursue the subject further.
Only Heaven knows the truth, she sighed.
We cant find out now who told, so its no use crying.
Take it easy till the old ladys in a good mood, then you can tell her about it and ask to have Qingwen back.
Dont hold out false hopes, he snorted.
If I wait till my mother calms down itll be too late, because Qingwens illness wont wait.
Shes always lived in comfort, never had to put up with a single days bad treatment.
Even I, who know her so well, often offended her.
Dismissing her now, he went on more bitterly, seriously ill as she is and with all that resentment bottled up inside her, is like throwing a delicate orchid just coming into bloom into a pigsty.
Besides, she has no parents, only an elder cousin whos a drunkard.
How can she stand it there?
How can you talk of waiting for a few days?
Who knows whether Ill ever see her again or not?
Xiren laughed.
Youre like the magistrate who goes in for arson but wont allow common people to light a lamp.
If we let slip some tactless remark you say its unlucky, but its all right for you to talk about her dying.
She may be extra delicate, still it shouldnt come to that.
I didnt speak at random.
There was an omen this spring.
What omen?
That begonia at the foot of the steps was thriving, but then for no reason half its branches withered.
I knew that was a portent, and now see whats happened to her.
Xiren laughed again.
I shouldnt say this, but I must, youre a regular old woman.
How can an educated young gentleman talk that way?
What have plants to do with human fate?
If youre not an old woman you really are a fool.
You dont understand, Baoyu sighed.
Not only plants and trees but all things in the world are just as sentient and rational as human be- ings.
When in rapport with someone, theyre specially sensitive.
Some outstanding examples are the juniper tree before Confucius temple and the yarrow before his tomb, as well as the cypress before Zhuge Liangs 1 temple and the pine before Yue Feis 2 tomb.
All these stately plants embodying these mens fine spirit have endured for centuries, withering when the world is in confusion and flourishing again when it is well governed.
They have withered and revived again several times in all these thousands of years.
Arent they sure signs?
Minor examples are the peony before Lady Yangs Scented Pavilion, the tree of longing before her Upright Tower, or the grass on Wang Zhaojuns tomb.
They all had divine sensibility, didnt they?
Its because shes going to die that half the begonia withered.
Hearing this senseless talk, Xiren did not know whether to laugh or cry.
Youre getting more and more outrageous, she protested.
How can you rack your brains to compare Qingwen, a mere nobody, with those great figures?
Besides, however good she may be, shes lower in status than I am.
You should compare me, not her with the begonia.
I suppose this means Im going to die very soon.
Baoyu clapped a hand over her mouth.
What a thing to say!
Before one deaths taken place youre talking of another.
All right, lets drop the subject.
Ive already lost three of you, I dont want to lose one more.
Secretly pleased, Xiren told herself If they hadnt gone, how far would you have let yourself go?
From now on, he continued, lets say no more about it, just consider the three of them as dead and gone.
Others have died before without it mattering much to me anyway.
Its all the same.
But lets talk about practical matters.
We must secretly send her things to her without letting the mistresses know, as well as a few strings of cash from our savings to help cure her illness.
We owe her that for old times sake.
How heartless and stingy you think us!
Xiren exclaimed.
We dont need a reminder from you.
Ive already sorted out all her clothes and things and put them aside.
In the daytime there are too many busybodies around, all eager to make trouble but as soon as its dark well quietly get Mrs. Song to take them over.
Ive saved a few strings of cash too, which Im giving her.
Baoyu expressed grateful thanks.
Im already known as a paragon of virtue, she said sarcastically.
Surely this is a cheap way to add to my reputation.
At once he apologized and tried to mollify her.
That evening, in strict confidence, they sent Mrs. Song off on this errand.
And after settling his maids down, Baoyu slipped out of the back gate alone and begged an old woman to take him to see Qingwen.
At first she most resolutely refused, saying that if it was found out and reported to the mistress shed lose her job but after he pleaded hard and promised her a tip she finally took him.
Now Qingwen had been sold into bondage to Lai Das family at the age of ten, before she had grown her hair.
Old Mrs. Lai used to take her to the Rong Mansion, and the Lady Dowager took a fancy to her because of her intelligence and good looks, where upon Mrs. Lai presented her to the old lady, and that was how she had later become Baoyus maid.
Having come here as a child, she had no recollection of her old home and parents.
Her only relative was a cousin on her fathers side, a good cook but without any steady employment.
She had asked Mrs. Lai to take him into service in the Rong Mansion.
By that time Qingwen was waiting on the old lady and had turned out a smart, sharp-tongued girl with a hot temper but touched by her remembering her kinsman, Mrs. Lai bought him too and gave him one of the bondm aids as his wife.
However, once living in comfort, the fellow forgot his hard life as a vagrant and took to drinking heavily, paying no attention to his wife who happened to be a good-looking, amorous woman.
When he drank so recklessly, ignoring her, she felt as disconsolate as a piece of jade tossed among brambles or a beauty immured in solitude.
Then, finding him so easygoing that he was never jealous, she started dispensing her favours to all the stout fellows and men of parts in the mansion until soon she had tried out half the men, masters as well as servants.
If, Reader, you wish to know her name, she was that Miss Deng, the wife of To the Muddy Worm with whom ha Lian had once had an affair.
As these were Qingwens only relatives, she had to stay with them.
Her cousin was away at this time and Miss Deng had gone out after supper to call on friends, leaving Qingwen lying alone in the outer room.
Baoyu told the old woman to keep watch in the courtyard, then lifted the matting portiere and went in.
There was Qingwen on an earthen kang covered with a coarse mat, although at least she had her own pillow and bedding.
Not knowing what to do, he approached her with tears in his eyes and gently took her hand, softly calling her name.
Qingwen had caught a chill and this, combined with her relatives reproaches, had made her illness worse.
After coughing for a whole day she had just dozed off, but hearing her name called she opened her eyes with an effort.
When she saw it was Baoyu, she was so overwhelmed with pleased surprise mingled with grief and anguish that she promptly burst out sobbing.
Grasping his hand with all her might, she managed at last to gasp between fits of coughing I never thought to see you again.... Baoyu too could only weep.
Merciful Buddha!
cried Qingwen.
Youve come just in time.
Pour me half a cup of tea.
Ive been parched all this time, but when I call no one comes.
Where is the tea?
he asked, wiping his eyes.
On the stove.
Baoyu saw a black earthenware pot which he would never have recognized as a teapot.
He took from the table a bowl, so large and coarse that it bore no resemblance to a teacup either and when he had it in his hand it smelled of rancid oil.
He washed and rinsed it several times, after which he picked up the pot and poured out half a bowl.
The dark red brew was unlike any tea he had seen.
Qingwen leaning on her pillow urged, Pass it over, quick, for me to take a sip.
You cant expect them here to have the kind of tea were used to.
Baoyu first took a sip himself.
The brew had no fragrance, only a bitter taste slightly reminiscent of tea.
But when he passed her the bowl she gulped it all down as if it were sweet dew.
He reflected In the past the best tea couldnt satisfy her, yet now she likes this!
It shows the truth of the old saying The well-fed turn away from cooked meats, while the famished enjoy dregs of wine and husks of rice.And again One glutted with rice prefers thin gruel.
Shedding tears he asked, Have you anything to tell me while nobodys about?
What is there to say?
she sobbed.
Im just dragging on from day to day, from hour to hour.
I shall be gone in a few days at most, I know.
But I cant die content.
I may have been born with more than my share of good looks, but theres been no secret understanding between us and Ive never tried to lead you astray, yet they insist Im a vamp.
That I do resent!
Now Ive got this bad name for nothing and Im dying.
If only Id known how things would end Id have acted differently but I was fool enough to think wed always be together.
How could I guess thered be this sudden scandal and Id have nowhere to plead my innocence?
She burst into tears again.
Baoyu took her hand.
On her wrists, thin as sticks, were for silver bracelets.
Better take these off, he advised.
You can wear them when youre better.
As he drew off the bracelets and put them under her pillow he remarked, You took such care to grow those finger-nails two inches long now your illness is going to spoil them.
Qingwen dried her tears and reached for a pair of scissors to cut off the tapering nails of the last two fingers of her left hand.
Then, under the quilt, she took off her worn red silk bodice and gave this to him together with the nails.
Take these keepsakes to remind you of me, she said.
And now take off your inner jacket and help me put it on, so that lying in my coffin I shall feel as if I were still in Happy Red Court.
I shouldnt do such a thing, of course, but as Ive already got a bad name why not?
At once Baoyu took off his inner jacket, put on her bodice, and concealed the finger-nails.
If they see these when you go back and question you, she sobbed, theres no need to lie.
Just tell them these are mine.
Since Ive been falsely accused, why shouldnt I at least have this satisfaction?
While she was still speaking her cousins wife lifted the portiere and burst in, smirking.
Fine, I heard all you two said!
She turned to Baoyu.
What is a young master doing in a servants room?
Have you come to seduce me, thinking me young and pretty?
Hush, good sister!
Not so loud!
he begged.
Shes worked for me all these years, so I slipped in to see her.
Miss Deng hustled him into the inner room.
You dont want me to shout, she chortled.
All right if youll be nice to me.
She plumped down on the edge of the kang hugging Baoyu to her.
He had never seen such behaviour as this before.
His heart beating fast he blushed all over his face.
Good sister, dont tease me!
he pleaded.
Miss Deng laughed tipsily.
Bah!
Ive always heard that you were a ladys man.
What makes you so bashful today?
Flushing crimson he implored, Do let go of me, then we can talk properly.
If the old woman outside hears how awful !
I came back long ago and sent her to wait for you at the Garden gate, she laughed.
Ive been waiting and waiting for a chance like this, but now that youre here Ive discovered youre a fraud.
For all youre so handsome, youre nothing but a fire-cracker without powder good only for show.
Why, youre much shyer than I am.
This shows its no use listening to gossip.
For instance, when my cousin came home I was sure you two must have been up to some monkey business thats why I came back to listen outside the window.
If theres been some goings-on between you, as you were alone you would have talked about it but to my surprise thered been nothing of the sort.
So its clear lots of people get wrongly accused in this world.
Im sorry I misjudged you.
Well, as this is the case, youve nothing to worry about.
You can come whenever you like and I wont pester you.
Feeling very relieved he got up and straightened his clothes.
Good sister, please take good care of her for a couple of days, he urged her.
I must be off now.
He went out then to say goodbye to Qingwen.
Both were reluctant to part, but part they must and knowing how hard he found it, she covered her face with the quilt and ignored him until he left.
Baoyu had wanted to call on Fangguan and Sier too, but as it was dark and he had been out for some time he was afraid he would be missed and a search might be made for him, leading to more trouble.
He had better return to the Garden and go out again the next day.
When he reached the back gate, pages were bringing out bedding while nurses inside were checking up on people.
A minute later and he would have been locked out.
Luckily he was able to slip in unobserved.
Home again, he simply told Xiren that he had been with Aunt Xue and left it at that.
Presently when preparing his bed, she had to ask him how they should sleep that night.
Any way you like, was his answer.
Now for the last couple of years, since Xiren got into the good books of Lady Wang, she had begun to stand on her dignity and broken off her intimacy with Baoyu even in private or at night, behaving more distantly than when they were young.
And though she had no major business to attend to, all the needlework of the household, as well as the accounts and seeing to the clothing and shoes of Baoyu and the young maids kept her fully occupied.
Moreover, though she no longer suffered from flux-ions, when she was tired or caught cold she sometimes coughed blood and for this reason she had avoided sleeping in the same room as Baoyu.
However, he often woke up in the night and being very timid would always call for someone so Qingwen, who was a light sleeper and soft-footed, had been given the task of pouring him tea and attending him at night and had slept on a bed near his.
Now Xiren had to ask who should sleep on the bed near his, as she considered this work at night more important than any daytime tasks.
Told to do as she thought fit, she could only move in her own bedding to sleep in Baoyus room as in the old days.
That evening he was lost in thought.
Finally she persuaded him to go to bed, but after she and the others had turned in she heard him groaning and tossing about in bed till after midnight, when finally he calmed down and started snoring.
In relief she dozed off herself, but in less time than it takes to drink half a cup of tea he called for Qingwen.
Xiren woke with a start and asked what he wanted.
Some tea, he said.
She got up, rinsed her hands in a basin of water, then poured him half a cup from the warm pot.
After sipping some tea Baoyu said with an apologetic smile, Im so used to calling her, I forgot it was you.
You were used to calling me in your sleep when she first took over.
It took you months to get out of the habit.
So I knew that though Qingwens gone her name would still be on your lips.
They lay down again.
Baoyu tossed and turned for another hour or two, not falling asleep till the fifth watch.
Then he saw Qingwen come in, looking her usual self.
Having entered the room, she told him with a smile Take good care of yourselves.
I must leave you now.
With that she turned and vanished.
Baoyu called her, waking Xiren again.
She thought it was another slip of the tongue, but he sobbed Qingwen is dead!
What a thing to say!
How could you know?
Dont let other people hear you talk such nonsense.
Baoyu insisted that he was right and could hardly wait till dawn to send to find out.
Just at daybreak, however, a young maid sent by Lady Wang came to the Garden and called out asking to have the front side gate opened, as the mistress had instructions to be passed on.
Baoyu must wash and dress quickly!
she cried.
The master has been invited out to enjoy the autumn scenery and the osmanthus in bloom.
He is pleased with Baoyu because he wrote a good poem the other day, so he means to take him along.
Thats what Her Ladyship said, so dont get a word wrong.
Hrry up and tell him to come as fast as he can.
The masters waiting in the principal apartments for the boys to come and have breakfast.
Master Huan has already arrived, and someones been sent to fetch Master Lan as hes to go as well.
As she delivered this message, the serving-woman inside assented sentence by sentence while buttoning her clothes, then opened the gate.
Several other maids, hastily dressing themselves, had run to pass on these instructions.
When Xiren heard knocking at the gate, she got up at once and sent to ask what was so pressing.
This summons relayed to her, she quickly called for hot water and urged Baoyu to get up and wash while she fetched his clothes.
Since he was going out with his father, instead of choosing his most splendid new clothes she selected a less conspicuous outfit.
Baoyu had.no choice but to go as fast as he could.
He found his father drinking tea, obviously in a good humour.
Having paid his morning respects he was greeted by Jia Huan and Jia Lan in turn, and then Jia Zheng ordered him to sit down to breakfast.
Baoyu doesnt study as hard as you, he told the other boys.
But when it comes to writing inscriptions or capping verses you havent got his flair.
Today our hosts are bound to make you write poems, and Baoyu must help you both out.
Lady Wang, who had never heard such praise from him, was both surprised and pleased.
After father and sons had left, she was thinking of going over to see the old lady when the foster-mothers of Fangguan, Ouguan and Ruiguan were announced.
Ever since Your Ladyship kindly allowed Fangguan to come home shes behaved like a crazy creature, one of them reported.
Shell neither eat nor drink.
And now the three of them shes got Ouguan and Ruiguan to do the same insist on cutting their hair and becoming nuns.
They threaten to kill themselves if we wont let them.
At first I thought the child was just unused to the way we live outside, and would get over this whim in a couple of days.
But theyre carrying on worse and worse.
Weve scolded and beaten them, but its no use.
Were really at our wits end thats why weve come to beg Your Ladyships help.
Well either have to allow them to become nuns or give them a good talking to and let other families take them.
We havent the fortune to keep them!
Nonsense!
exclaimed Lady Wang.
How can you let them have their own way?
How can anyone enter a nunnery for fun?
Give them a thrashing and theyll show more sense.
Now as this was just after the mid-autumn sacrifices, nuns from various nunneries had come to present sacrificial offerings, and Lady Wang had kept Abbess Zhitong of Water Moon Convent and Abbess Yuanxin of Ksitigarbha Nunnery to stay for a couple of days.
When they heard this news, they thought it a chance to get two girls for nothing to work for them.
After all, they told Lady Wang, its because your house is a virtuous one and you yourself do so many good deeds that these young girls have been influenced in this way.
Though the house of Buddha isnt easy to enter, we should remember that the law of Buddha extends to all alike.
Our Buddhas wish is to save all living creatures, yes, even chickens and dogs but, alas, those who are deluded are hard to awaken.
Anyone who has the root of goodness in her and can attain enlightenment can transcend transmigration.
Why, even a number of tigers, wolves, snakes and insects have now entered Nirvana.
These three orphan girls far from their native places lived here amid wealth and splendour but now they remember their early poverty which forced them to take to a despised profession, and they have no idea what will become of them in future.
So turning away from this sea of sufferings they have decided to renounce the world and cultivate virtue, in the hope of doing better in their next life.
This is a good and noble resolve.
Please dont stand in their way, madam.
Now Lady Wang was fond of doing good deeds.
She had not allowed Fangguan and the other girls to have their way because, to her mind, they were only children who had made this proposal in a fit of anger they might prove unable to stand austerity, leading to more trouble in future.
The speech of these two swindlers struck her as reasonable.
Besides, she was quite distracted these days with a host of family problems, in addition to which Lady Xing had sent word that she intended to fetch Yingchun back tomorrow for a couple of days so that her prospective in-laws could inspect her, and official go-betweens had also come to propose a match for Tanchun.
Unable to give much thought to these minor matters, she consented willingly.
Well then, since thats how you feel, why not take these girls away as your acolytes?
Merciful Buddha!
the abbesses exclaimed.
how good of you, madam!
This is a most virtuous deed.
They forthwith bowed their thanks.
Theyd better be questioned first, said Lady Wang.
If they are really in earnest they can come and, in my presence, pay their respects to you now as their Mothers Superior.
The three foster-mothers fetched the three girls, and Lady Wang sounded them out carefully.
As their minds were made up, they kowtowed to the two abbesses and then to Lady Wang by way of farewell.
Seeing that they were determined and not to be dissuaded, she could not help feeling a pang of pity and sent for gifts for them as well as for the abbesses.
Then Fangguan went off with Zhitong of Water Moon Convent, and the other two erstwhile actresses with Yuanxin of Ksitigarbha Nunnery.
To know what followed, read on.
Chapter 78 An Old Scholar at Leisure Has Eulogies Composed His Unorthodox, Witless Son Laments the Hibiscus After the two abbesses had taken the young actresses away, Lady Wang called to pay her morning respects to the Lady Dowager.
And finding her in a good mood she reported Baoyus maid Qingwen has grown up row, and this last year or so shes kept falling ill. Ive noticed too that shes saucier and lazier than the others.
Recently she was ill again for over ten days, and the doctor diagnosed it as consumption so then and there I dismissed her with instructions not to come back when shes better, giving her to her family to marry off.
I also took it on myself to send away those few young actresses.
Because, on account of their theatrical training, they talked in a wild way we dont want our girls to hear and as they performed for us here for a time, it wouldnt have been right to ask for money for them.
In any case, we have too many maids.
If we need more in future, we can always pick a few others.
Quite right and proper.
The old lady nodded approval.
Exactly what I had in mind myself.
But I always thought Qingwen a very nice girl.
How could she have turned out so badly?
She struck me as smarter than the other maids, with a ready tongue too and better at needlework the best choice as a concubine for Baoyu in future.
Who could have dreamed that shed change for the worse?
You made the right choice, madam, only she wasnt fated to have such good fortune.
Thats why she contracted this illness.
As the saying goes, A girl changes eighteen times before reaching womanhood.
And the smarter the girl, the more out of hand shell get.
You must have seen many such cases.
Three years ago when I thought about this question too, she was my first choice.
No ones a match for her in other ways, its just that shes 2373 a bit flighty.
For steadiness and propriety, Xiren comes first.
Though whats wanted in a wife is virtue, they say, and in a concubine beauty, still its better to choose a girl with a sweet disposition and steady character.
Xiren may not be up to Qingwen in looks, yet shes the best for Baoyus chamber.
Trustworthy, too, and honest.
These last few years shes never once led Baoyu into mischief.
In fact, whenever he does wrong she tries her best to dissuade him after watching her for two years I know this for certain.
Thats why I secretly stopped her pay as a maid and gave her two taels a month from my own allowance, so that shed understand and look after him even better.
I didnt make it public for two reasons partly because Baoyus young, and if his father knew of this he might think it bad for his studies partly because if she was known to be his concubine she wouldnt dare gainsay him, and Baoyu would carry on more wildly than ever.
This is why I didnt report it to you earlier.
The Lady Dowager smiled.
If thats the case so much the better.
Xirens always been so quiet I felt she was rather stupid but as you know her so well you cant be wrong.
Im all in favour, too, of not letting Baoyu know.
None of us must mention this, just let it be understood.
Im well aware that in future Baoyu wont listen to his wifes or concubines advice.
I cant understand him either.
Ive never known another child like him.
One expects a boy to be mischievous, but this extraordinary liking he has for maids has been preying on my mind.
Im for ever finding him fooling about with them.
At first I thought this intimacy was because hed grown big enough to know about sex but watching him more closely I realized that wasnt the reason, which makes it even odder.
Could it be that he was really meant to be born a girl....
This set every body laughing.
Then Lady Wang went on to describe how Jia Zheng had praised Baoyu today and taken the boys out with him to pay a call.
This pleased the old lady still more.
Soon Yingchun, dressed to go out, came to take her leave.
Then Xifeng arrived to pay her respects and wait upon the old lady as she had breakfast.
They chatted till it was time for her siesta, when Lady Wang called Xifeng over to ask her whether she had prepared her pills.
Not yet, was the answer.
Im still taking herb-cordials.
But dont 2375 you worry, madam.
Im much better.
Lady Wang believed her, having seen that she looked more energetic.
She told her of Qingwens dismissal.
How come you didnt know that Baochai of her own accord had moved home to sleep with her mother?
she continued.
A couple of days ago I made a search of all the other apartments in the Garden.
And, just imagine, I found young Lans new nurse a regular vamp!
I didnt like the look of her at all.
So I urged your sister-in-law to send her packing, as in any case hes big enough now not to need so many nurses.
And I asked her, Surely you knew about Baochais leaving?
She said yes, but Baochai had told her shed be coming back in a few days, once Aunt Xue was better.
Actually, theres nothing much the matter with Aunt Xue apart from that chronic cough and backache of hers which she gets every year.
So Baochai must have moved out for some other reason.
Do you think somebody offended her?
Shes a sensitive child, and it would be too bad if we offended her after living together for so long.
Why should anyone offend them for no reason?
asked Xifeng cheerfully.
They spend all their time in the Garden, so if there has been any misunderstanding it must be among themselves.
Can Baoyu have been tactless?
wondered his mother.
Hes such a simpleton, so tacking in scruples, that in a fit of excitement he may have spoken wildly.
Dont worry so much about him, madam.
When Baoyu goes out on business, he may talk and behave like a simpleton.
But when hes at home with all these girl cousins of his, or even with the maids, hes most considerate to them, afraid of giving offence.
So no one could possibly be annoyed by him.
I think Baochai must have left because of the search the other night, naturally concluding that we didnt trust certain people in the Garden.
As shes a relative, we could hardly search her servants.
But for fear that her household might be suspected, being sensitive as she is she took her self off so as to avoid suspicion.
And quite right, too.
Convinced by this estimate, Lady Wang lowered her head and after 2377 some reflection told a maid to invite Baochai over.
She explained about the recent search to set her nieces mind at rest then urged her to move back into the Garden.
Id been meaning to move out for some time, said Baochai with a smile.
Only I didnt find the occasion to ask you, as you have so much important business to attend to.
But that day, as it happened, my mother was unwell again and our only two reliable maids were ill so I took the chance to move out.
Now that you know about it, I can explain the reason and ask leave today to move my things out too.
Neither Lady Wang nor Xifeng would hear of this.
Dont be so stubborn!
they cried laughingly.
What you should really do is move in again, not let something so inconsequential come between us.
I dont understand what you mean.
Baochai rejoined.
I didnt leave because of anything that happened here, but because my motherd been feeling less energetic and at night she had nobody to rely on but me.
Besides, my brother will soon be getting married.
Theres a lot of needlework to do, his rooms still have to be furnished, and I have to help her with all the preparations.
You know, aunt and Cousin Xifeng, how it is in our family and that Im not fibbing.
For another thing, after I moved into the Garden that small side gate in the southeast corner was kept open for me to go through but other people wanting to take a short cut could use it too, and there was nobody to make a check there.
If trouble had come of it, it would have been awkward for both families.
Besides, my moving into the Garden to sleep was of no great consequence.
A few years ago we were all young and I had no business at home, so I was better off here than outside, able to do needlework with the other girls and amuse myself with themthat was better than sitting idly at home by myself.
Now weve all grown up and have our different tasks.
Moreover, these years youve had various troubles, aunt.
And the Garden is too big for you to keep an eye on everything.
The fewer the people there, the less you need worry.
So now Ive not only made up my mind to move out, but Ill venture to advise you, aunt, to cut down as far as possible, for that wont make us lose face.
It seems to me 2379 that much of this expenditure in the Garden could be avoided.
After all, times have changed.
You know our family well, aunt we werent as badly off as this in the old days!
Xifeng after hearing this said to Lady Wang, Shes right.
We neednt insist.
Lady Wang nodded.
Ive no anawer to that.
Just do as you think fit.
At this point Baoyu came back with the other boys.
My father is still feasting, he said.
As it will soon be growing dark, he told us to come home first.
Lady Wang hastily asked, Did you make any gaffes today?
No, he answered with a smile.
Not only that but Ive brought back a lot of loot.
Then some old serving-women fetched in from the pages at the inner gate the presents the young masters had received.
Lady Wang saw these were three fans, three fan-pendants, six boxes of writing brushes and ink-tablets, three strings of scented beads and three jade rings, which Baoyu explained had been given them by Academician Mei, Vice-Minister Yang and Secretary Lione set apiece.
He then pulled a talisman, a small sandalwood Buddha, from his pocket.
This was a gift just for me from the Duke of Jingguo.
Lady Wang asked what guests had been there and what poems they had written, then took the three boys to pay their duty visit to the old lady, ordering the servant carrying Baoyus presents to accompany them.
The Lady Dowager, delighted, inevitably cross-examined them too.
Baoyu was so worried about Qingwen, however, that after answering her questions he told her that his bones ached after riding.
Go back quickly then, urged the old lady.
Once youve changed your clothes and rested, youll feel better.
But mind you dont lie down.
Thereupon Baoyu hurried back to the Garden.
Sheyue and Qiuwen had been waiting in the old ladys place with two younger maids.
When Baoyu left they followed him, Qiuwen carrying his presents.
How hot it is!
he kept complaining.
While walking he took off his hat, belt and outer garment, which Sheyue 2381 carried for him.
Baoyu was now wearing only a green satin jacket above a pair of blood-red trousers, and Qiuwen noticing that these were trousers which Qingwen had made for him heaved a sigh.
Better keep those trousers as a memento, she said.
Really, though shes gone her handiwork is still here.
Yes, thats Qingwens work, said Sheyue, then quoted the saying The handiwork remains though the makers gone.
Qiuwen nudged her, saying more cheerfully Those trousers, with that green jacket and the blue boots make a vivid foil for black hair and a snow-white complexion.
Baoyu in front pretended not to have heard them and walked on a few paces, then stopped.
Is it all right if I take a stroll?
he asked.
What are you afraid of in broad daylight?
Sheyue answered.
You cant get lost.
She told the two young maids to accompany him.
Well join you after weve put these things away.
Wont you wait for me here, good sister?
Well be back soon, Sheyue promised.
With both our hands full were like a regular retinue, one carrying the four treasures of the study, one a hat, belt and garments it looks so ridiculous!
As this was what Baoyu had hoped for, he let them go.
He then led the two young maids behind a rockery.
Without further ado he asked After I left, did Sister Xiren send anyone to see Sister Qingwen?
She sent Mrs. Song, one girl told him.
What did she say after she came back?
She said Sister Qingwen was crying out all night.
First thing this morning, she closed her eyes and stopped calling because shed fainted away and couldnt get a sound out, just gasping for breath.
Whom was she calling all night?
he hastily asked.
Her mother.
Baoyu wiped his tears.
Who else?
Nobody else.
You silly thing, you cant have heard her clearly.
The other girl by him was smarter.
When she heard this she stepped 2383 -400 forward.
She really is silly, she told Baoyu.
I not only heard her clearly, I went over on the sly to see Qingwen.
Why did you do that?
Because I remembered how good Sister Qingwen always was to usnot like other people.
Though shed been unfairly treated and left, if we couldnt find any other way to help her, we should at least go to see her to repay her former kindness.
Even if we were found out and reported to the mistress, and if we got beaten for it, wed gladly put up with that.
Thats why, at the risk of a beating, I slipped over to see her.
She always had intelligence, and was clear in her head right up to the time of her death.
She only closed her eyes because she didnt want to talk to those vulgar people.
When she saw me, she opened her eyes and took my hand.
-400 Where is Baoyu?
she asked me.
I told her where youd gone.
She sighed, I shant be able to see him again then.
Why not wait till hes back?
I asked.
Then he can see you once more, which is what you both want.
She smiled and told me, You dont understand.
Im not going to die.
Theres a vacancy now in heaven for a flower goddess, and the Jade Emperor has appointed me.
I have orders to go to my new post at half past two but Baoyu wont be back till a quarter to three too late by a quarter of an hour to see me.
When people are fated to die and the King of Hell summons them, he sends small devils to fetch their spirits away.
If someone wants to delay a bit he can burn paper money and serve some porridge then while the devils are scrambling for the money, the one whos dying can have a short reprieve.
But now I mustnt delay, as Ive been invited by the gods in heaven.
At the time.
I didnt quite believe her.
But when I got back and looked carefully at the clock, it was true that she died at half past two, and at a quarter to three your return was announced.
So shed got both the times right.
You dont understand because you cant read, Baoyu answered.
This is absolutely true.
Every single flower has its goddess, and theres 2385 also a goddess in charge of all the flowers.
I wonder whether shes gone to take charge of them all, or of one particular flower.
The maid had no ready answer.
As it happened to be the eighth month and hibiscus was blooming beside the pond in the Garden, she took her cue from that.
I asked her to let us know what flower shed be in charge of, she said, so that in future we can sacrifice to her.
She told me, Heavens secrets cant be disclosed but as you are so pious Ill tell you.
You can let Baoyu know, but no one else if you do, youll be struck dead by a thunderbolt!
Then she told me she was in charge of the hibiscus.
Baoyu, far from being surprised, felt his grief turn into pleasure.
He pointed at the hibiscus.
This flower needs a girl like her to care for it, he observed, I always thought that someone with her talents was bound to be given a responsible task.
But although Qingwen had departed this sea of woe, the thought that they could never meet again inevitably filled him with grief and longing.
Though I didnt see her at the end, he reflected, I must go and sacrifice now at her shrine, for the sake of our friendship these last half dozen years.
Accordingly, he went straight back to change his clothes and, on the pretext of going to see Daiyu, went out of the Garden alone to the house where he had last visited Qingwen, assuming that her coffin would be there.
However, as soon as Qingwen died, her cousin and his wife had reported this in the hope of getting some money at once for the funeral.
Lady Wang on hearing this news gave them ten taels of silver and ordered them to have the body taken out of town immediately to be cremated, for as Qingwen had died of consumption it must not be kept in the vicinity.
The cousin and his wife took the money, then lost no time in having her body coffined and taken to the crematorium outside the city.
Her clothes and trinkets, which were worth some three or four hundred taels, they kept for future use.
Then they locked up the place and went to attend her funeral.
Baoyu, finding no one there, stood outside the door for a while then, 2387 as there was nothing he could do, he had to return to the Garden.
Back in his own rooms, he felt so depressed that he decided to call on Daiyu.
However, he found she was out.
When he asked where she had gone, her maids told him To Miss Baochais place.
Baoyu went then to Alpinia Park, only to find it quiet and desertedeven the furnishings had been removed.
He was very much taken aback.
He inquired of an old serving-woman who chanced to come along just then what had happened.
Miss Baochai has gone, she informed him.
Weve been told to look after the place until everthings been moved away.
After weve cleared these things away, the compound will be locked up.
Youd better go now, young master, so that we can sweep up the dust.
You wont have to make any more trips here, sir, in future.
For a while Baoyu stood there stupefied.
He saw that the fragrant herbs and creepers in the courtyard were as green and luxuriant as ever, but they suddenly seemed to have grown disconsolate too, and the sight added to his grief.
He left in silence.
It had struck him that for some time no one had passed the tree-lined dyke outside the gate, whereas in the old days a whole succession of maids from different quarters had kept coming here all of their own accord.
Looking down, and seeing that the stream at the foot of the dyke was still flowing smoothly past, he marvelled that nature could be so lacking in feeling.
After grieving awhile he reflected Five girls have gone, among them Siqi, Ruhua and Fangguan and now Qingwen is dead, and Baochais household has left.
Though Yingchun hasnt gone yet, shes been away these days and match-makers keep coming to arrange her marriage.
It probably wont be long before all the girls in the Garden disperse.
Still, its no use moping over this.
I may as well call on Daiyu and keep her company for a while before coming back to pass the time with Xiren.
Most likely only the two or three of us will remain together till our dying day.
Thinking in this way, he went to Bamboo Lodge but Daiyu was still out.
He thought next of attending Qingwens funeral, then decided against this, guessing that it would only make him feel sadder.
So he returned dejectedly to his rooms.
2389 He was just wondering what to do when a maid from Lady Wang came to find him.
The masters back and wants you, she announced.
He has another good subject for poetry.
Go quickly.
Hurry!
Baoyu had to accompany her to Lady Wangs place, only to find that his father had left already.
His mother ordered the servants to take him to his fathers study.
Jia Zheng was discoursing with his secretaries on the beauty of the autumn scenery.
Before the last party broke up, he remarked, we spoke of an incident which was surely the most enchanting tale of all times.
Gallantry and sublimity, loyalty and magnanimity not one quality was missing.
So it should make a fine subject for an elegiac poem.
Suppose we write one?
His protgs promptly asked what wonderful story this was.
There was a certain Prince Heng who governed Qingzhou, Jia Zheng told them.
What he loved most was feminine beauty, and when at leisure he liked to practise the military arts.
So he selected a number of beautiful girls and made them train for battle every day.
When at a loose end, he would feast his beauties for days and ask them to display their swordsmanship or to seize or defend a bastion.
One of these girls named Lin, the fourth child of her family, was a surpassing beauty and expert too in military arts.
She was known as Fourth Mistress Lin.
The prince, delighted with her, put her in command of all the other girls and called her his Lovely General.
The secretaries all exclaimed in wonder.
Lovely followed by General what a very gallant and romantic title!
This is really miraculous.
Prince Heng himself must have been the most romantic figure of all time!
Jia Zheng smiled.
Quite so.
But what followed is even more amazing and heart-rending.
His protgs all asked eagerly, What was that?
The next year the Yellow Turbans, Red Brows 2 and other rebels joined forces to raid the region east of the Taihang Mountains.
The prince, 2391 thinking them rabble who did not need to be taken seriously, led a light force to wipe them out.
However, those rebels were crafty.
His forces lost two battles, and the prince was killed by the rebels.
Then all the civil and military officers in the provincial capital said to each other If even the prince could not beat them, what can we do?
They wanted to surrender.
But Fourth Mistress Lin hearing this bad news assembled her women soldiers and announced We were shown such favour by the prince in the past that we shall never be able to repay a fraction of it.
Now that he has fallen in defence of the royal cause, I want to die for him too.
Any of you who wish to follow me may the rest are free to leave.
When the other women saw how determined she was, they all volunteered to join her.
So that same night Fourth Mistress Lin led them out of the city to attack the rebels camp.
The rebels were caught unawares and several of their chieftains were killed.
Then seeing that their opponents were only a few women whom they reckoned couldnt amount to much, they counter-attacked and after some hard fighting killed them all, including Fourth Mistress Lin.
And so she succeeded in proving her loyalty.
When this was reported to the capital the Emperor and all his ministers were shocked and moved and naturally sent troops to crush the rebels.
As soon as the Imperial troops arrived, the rebellion was suppressed we need not go into that.
But, gentlemen, after hearing this story of Fourth Mistress Lin, dont you think it admirable!
Truly admirable and amazing!
exclaimed his secretaries.
This is really a wonderful subject.
We should all write something to commemorate her.
One of them had already picked up a brush and written a short preface based on ha Zhengs account simply changing a few words.
He now handed this to his patron to read.
Thats the idea, said Jia Zheng.
Actually, a short account has already been written.
The other day an Imperial Decree was issued ordering a search to be made for all those who should have been commended but were left out of past records, whether monks, nuns, beggars or women, as long as they had performed some worthy deed.
The ac- 2393 counts were to be sent to the Board of Rites for the Emperors approval.
So this account was sent to the Board of Rites.
And after hearing this story, you should all write a poem on the Lovely Generals loyalty and sense of honour.
So we should, they all agreed, laughing.
And whats still more admirable is the fact that our dynasty is showing such unprecedented kindness, unmatched in earlier times.
The men of Tang said, Our sagacious court overlooks nothing, and this has come true today.
Our dynasty lives up to this prediction.
Jia Zheng nodded.
Exactly.
As they were speaking, Huan and Lan arrived, and Jia Zheng told them to look at the subject.
Though both of them, like Baoyu, could write poetry, this was not their special line.
When it came to writing examination papers, Huan and Lan might surpass Baoyu but when it came to literature in general, they were much inferior.
Besides, they lacked Baoyus literary brilliance and poetic flair.
Thus the poems they wrote were like eight-section essays, inevitably stereotyped and pedantic.
Baoyu, though not to be reckoned a good scholar, had innate intelligence and loved to browse on literature of all kinds.
He believed that some ancient classics were apocryphal and contained errors too, thus they should not be taken for gospel moreover, if one had too many scruples and just stuck together phrases from old books, such writing would be most uninteresting.
These being his views, when he saw a subject for poetry whether difficult or easy he would write on it effortlessly, just as glib talkers having nothing to go on rely on their ready tongues to hold forth at random, spinning lengthy yarns which though they have no basis in fact delight all those who hear them.
Even strict sticklers for the truth cannot beat such entertaining fantasies.
Jia Zheng, growing old now, no longer hankered after fame and profit besides, by temperament, he was fond of poetry, wine and liberal talk.
Although he felt constrained to guide his sons and nephews along the right path, when he saw that Baoyu albeit not fond of study had some understanding of poetry, he decided that this did not really disgrace their ancestors for they themselves, he recalled, had been the same and though 2395 working hard for the examinations had never distinguished themselves apparently this was the Jia familys destiny.
Moreover, his mother doted on this grandson.
So Jia Zheng did not insist too much on Baoyu working for the examinations and had recently treated him more leniently.
And he wished that Huan and Lan, apart from writing eight-section essays, would follow Baoyus example.
This was why, whenever they were composing poetry, he would summon all three boys together to write.
But enough of this.
Now Jia Zheng told them to write a poem apiece, promising the reward to one who finished first and to give an additional prize for the best poem.
As Huan and Lan had recently written several poems in company, they no longer lacked confidence.
After reading the topic, they went off to think it over.
Before long, Lan was the first one to finish.
And Huan, afraid to be left behind, finished his too.
By the time both had copied their verses out, Baoyu was still lost in thought.
Jia Zheng and his secretaries read the two younger boys verses.
Lans heptasyllabic quatrain read as follows -763 Fourth Mistress Lin, Lovely General, Had jade-like beauty but an iron will Because she gave her life to requite Prince Heng Today the soil of her district is fragrant still.
The secretaries said admiringly, When a boy of thirteen can write like this, it truly shows the influence of a scholarly family.
Jia Zheng smiled.
The language is childish, but its quite a good effort.
Then they read Huans eight-line pentameter, which was as follows -763 Fair young ladies know no sorrow, But a general has no relief Wiping her tears she left her broidered hangings And took the battlefield, her heart filled with grief.
-6024 She wanted to requite the princes kindness Who else would wreak vengeance on the enemy.
-763 Let us, at her grave, eulogize her loyalty And her eternal, peerless gallantry.
This is even better!
the secretaries exclaimed.
Being a few years 2397 older after all, he is more original.
Its not too bad, said Jia Zheng, but it still lacks real feeling.
Its quite good enough, they protested.
The Third Young Master is only a couple of years older hes not reached manhood yet.
If they go on working hard like this, in a few years theyll be like the poets Yuan Ji and Yuan Xian.
Jia Zheng laughed.
Youre praising them too highly.
The trouble with them is that they dont study hard.
Then he asked Baoyu how he was getting on.
His protgs said, The Second Young Master is composing his carefully.
Its bound to be more stylish and poignant than the others.
Baoyu said with a smile, This subject seems unsuitable for a poem in the later style.
Only a long poem in the old style some song or balladcan convey the spirit.
The secretaries rose to their feet, nodding and clapping.
We knew hed come out with something original, they said.
When presented with a subject, the first thing to consider is what is the most suitable form for it.
This shows hes an old hand at versifying.
This is like tailoringyou must measure your customer before cutting out a gown.
As this is a eulogy of the Lovely General and there is a preface to it, it should be a longish ballad something like Wen Tingyuns The Pitcher Song 3 or some other old ballad, or like Bai Juyis Song of Eternal Sorrow, 4 half narrative and half lyrical, lively and graceful.
Thats the only way to do justice to such a good subject.
Jia Zheng, approving this, took up the brush ready to write the poem down.
Very well then, he said to Baoyu, smiling.
Dictate it to me.
If its no good, Ill give you a thrashing for making such a shameless boast.
Baoyu started off with one line Prince Heng loved martial arts, the fair sex too .
Jia Zheng having written this down shook his head.
Crude!
Thats the classical style.
Surely not crude, one of his protgs remonstrated.
Lets see how he continues.
2399 -400 Well keep it for the time being, Jia Zheng conceded.
Baoyu resumed He taught girls horsemanship and archery, Taking no joy in splendid song or dance, Only in spearmanship and soldiery.
When Jia Zheng had written this out, the secretaries said, The third line has a classical flavour and is vigorous too excellent.
And these four lines are apt, fitting the narrative style.
Dont overdo your praise.
demurred Jia Zheng.
Lets see how he turns the subject.
Baoyu went on -763 No dust was seen to rise by watching eyes, By the red lantern stood the general fair.
After these two lines the rest exclaimed in approval.
Wonderful No dust was seen to rise followed by the red lantern and general fair.
The choice of words and images is superb.
Baoyu resumed -763 Her sweet breath scented every battle-cry, Hard for one so frail to wield cold sword and spear.
All clapped their hands and laughed.
Its drawn to the life!
Was Master Bao there at the time to see her delicate form and smell her sweet breath?
If not, how could he have conjured it up like this?
When ladies practise fighting, Baoyu explained, however fearless they are theyre no match for men.
It goes without saying theyll appear rather delicate.
Stop blethering, said his father, and go on quickly.
After a moments reflection Baoyu recited -763 Her knots of clove and her hibiscus belt The secretaries commented, A change of rhyme here is excellent, showing flexibility and fluency.
Besides, this line is charming in itself.
Jia Zheng wrote it down, observing.
This line is no good.
Hes already given us sweet breath and hard for one so frail to wield.
Why go on like this?
Its lack of substance that makes him pad out his lines in 2401 this way.
A long poem needs certain ornate images to add some touches of colour, ventured Baoyu.
If you just hunt for images, said his father, how can you move on to the fighting?
Another couple of lines like this will be superfluous.
In that case I suppose I can revert to the subject in the next line.
Jia Zheng smiled scornfully.
What great skill have you got?
Youve just made a fresh opening by bringing in something irrelevant.
If now in one line you try to round it off and revert to the main theme, youll find youve bitten off more than you can chew.
Baoyu lowered his head to think, and then continued -763 Enchain no pearls but a keen blade enchain.
He asked hastily, Will this line do?
All the secretaries applauded.
Jia Zheng having copied this out said with a smile, Well let it go.
Carry on.
If this is all right, Ill go straight on if its not, Ill scrap it and think up something else.
Be quiet!
snapped his father.
If its no good youll have to do it again.
If you had to write a few dozen poems, would you complain it was hard work?
Baoyu had to rack his brains and then declaimed -763 After a nights manoeuvres she is exhausted, Powder and rouge her silken headscarf stain.
Jia Zheng said, This is another stanza.
What follows?
Baoyu resumed -763 The next year rebels rampaged east of the mountains, Fierce tigers and leopards, swarming hornets were they.
Again the others exclaimed, That fine word rampaged shows skill, and the turn in the narrative is natural too.
Baoyu went on -763 The prince led Imperial troops to wipe them out One battle, then anotherthey lost the day.
2403 A reeking wind swept down the fields of wheat, Flags and empty commanders tent the sun did gild -763 Green hills were silent, the stream gurgled on Now, in the heat of battle, Prince Heng was killed.
Rain drenched the bones of the dead, blood stained the grass Moonlight fell cold on the sand, ghosts hovered around.
Wonderful, wonderful!
cried the secretaries.
Composition, narration and imageryall are perfect.
Lets see how he proceeds now to the Fourth Mistress.
Theres bound to be another skilful transition and more remarkable lines.
Baoyu continued -763 Commanders and men thought only of fleeing to safety, The city must speedily be razed to the ground.
Who would have looked in a boudoir for loyalty?
The princes favourite rose up wrathfully.
All commented, A good narraitve style.
-400 Too wordy, said Jia Zheng.
It may grow tedious.
Then Baoyu resumed -763 Who might that be, the favourite of Prince Heng?
Fourth Mistress Lin the fair general none but she!
She gave the order to her lovely troops, Fair as peach and plum-blossom they set off to fight Tears stained their embroidered saddles, heavy their grief, No clank from their armour in the chilly night.
None could know the outcome victory or defeat But they vowed at all costs their lords kindness to repay The rebels were too powerful to rout, They crushed these willows and bloomsalack the day!
Their ghosts stayed by the city, close to home Steeds trampled their sweet rouged corpses where they lay This news, sent posthaste to the capital, Filled every family with sore dismay.
The citys loss appalled the Emperor, Generals and ministers hung their heads in shame, For not one of the court officials could compare With lovely Fourth Mistress Lin of deathless fame.
2405 For this fair lady I sigh and sigh again -763 And, my song ended, my thoughts with her remain.
After Baoyu had finished, all the secretaries heaped praise on him and read through the poem once more.
Jia Zheng observed with a smile, Well, though there are some good lines its not moving enough.
Then he dismissed the three boys.
They left like prisoners reprieved to return to their different quarters.
We need not concern ourselves with all the others, who went to bed as usual when night fell.
Only Baoyu, whose heart was heavy as he went back to the Garden, suddenly noticed the hibiscus in bloom and remembered the young maids account of Qingwens appointment as the goddess in charge of this flower.
Imperceptibly, his spirits rose again as he gazed at the hibiscus, sighing.
All of a sudden it occurred to him that he had not yet paid his respects by her coffin, and it would be only fitting to sacrifice now before the flower this would be more original than the vulgar ceremonies before the bier.
He was on the verge of bowing to the flowers when he had second thoughts.
Even if I do this, I mustnt be too casual about it, he told himself.
Ill have to dress properly and have the sacrifice well prepared to show my sincere respect.
Then he reflected, It definitely wouldnt do to sacrifice to her in the usual vulgar manner, I must do something different and create a new ceremony which is romantic and original with nothing mundane about it only then will it be worthy of the two of us.
Besides, the men of old said Objects as humble as ditch-water and water-weeds can be offered to princes and deities.
Its not the value of the objects that counts, but only the hearts sincerity and reverence.
Thats the first thing.
And secondly, the eulogy and elegy must be original too and unconventional.
Its no good following the beaten track and padding the writing with high-sounding phrases one should shed tears of blood, making each word a sob, each phrase a groan.
Its better to show grief and to spare, even if that makes for an unpolished style.
At no cost must genuine feeling be sacrificed to meretricious writing.
Besides this was deprecated by 2407 many of the ancients too its not a new idea of mine today.
Unfortunately, men today are so keen on official advancement that they have completely discarded this classical style, for fear of not conforming to the fashion and damaging their chances of winning merit and fame.
As Im neither interested in rank or honour, nor writing something for others to read and admire, why shouldnt I follow the style of such poetic essays as The Talk of the Great, Summoning the Soul, The Lament and The Nine Arguments of the ancient Chu people, or The Withering Tree, The Queries, The Autumn Flood and Life of the Great Gentlmen?
I can intersperse the writing with solitary phrases or occasional short couplets, using allusions from real life as well as metaphors, and writing whatever I feel like.
If merry, I can write playfully if sad, I can record my anguish, until Ive conveyed my ideas fully and clearly.
Why should I be restricted by vulgar rules and conventions?
Baoyu had never been a good student, and now as he entertained such perverse ideas how could he produce any good poems or essays?
Yet he wrote purely for his own enjoyment, not for others to read or admire.
So giving free rein to his absurd imagination, he made up a long lament, and he copied this out neatly on a white translucent silk kerchief which Qingwen had fancied, entitling it Elegy for the Hibiscus Maid and giving it a preface and a concluding song.
He also had four of the things which Qingwen had liked best provided.
When it was dark and the moon was up, he told the young maid to place these before the hibiscus.
First be bowed, then hung the elegy on a spray of flowers and, shedding tears, recited In this year of lasting peace, this month when hibiscus and osmanthus bloom, and on this hapless day, loutish Baoyu of Happy Red Court presents fresh flowers, icy mermaids silk, water from Seeping Fragrance Fountain and maple-dew tea, mere trifles to convey his sincere feelings and to sacrifice to The Hibiscus Maid in charge of this autumn flower in the Palace of the White Emperor.
The dedication Pensively, I reflect that sixteen years have passed since this girl came into the dusty world, and her former name and home district have long been lost beyond recall.
Only for little more than five years and eight 2409 months did I have her together with me as a dear companion in my bed-chamber to help me with my toiler and to share my recreations.
In life, neither gold nor jade could compare with her character neither ice nor snow with her purity neither sun nor stars with her fine spirit neither flowers nor moon with her beauty.
All the maids admired her goodness, all the nurses praised her kindness.
Who could know that the eagle would be trapped in a net because pigeons and falcons hated its soaring spirit, that the orchid would be cut down because weeds envied its fragrance?
How could such a delicate flower withstand a fierce gale, or the care-stricken willow endure torrential rain?
Slandered by poisonous pests, she fell mortally ill her cherry lips lost their redness as she moaned, her apricot cheeks became wan and faded.
Slanderous accusations came from behind screens and curtains brambles and thorns choked doors and windows.
It was not that she asked for trouble, but refuting false charges she was fated to die.
She was trampled down without cease, endlessly accused.
Like Jia Yi, 5 She was attacked by those jealous of her noble character and, like Gun, 6 imperilled by her integrity.
She hid her bitterness in her heart, and who is thereto lament her life cut short?
Now the fairy clouds have scattered no trace of her can be found.
No search can be made for the incense that revives the dead, as the way to the Fairy Isles is lost.
No medicine that restores life can be obtained, as the Magic Barge 7 is gone.
Only yesterday I was painting those bluish eyebrows today, who will warm her cold fingers with the jade rings?
Medicine remains in the tripod on the stove the tear-stains on my gown are still wet.
Sad it is to open the mirror-case, for the phoenixes on its back have parted company with the broken mirror.
Her comb has broken, alas and flown off like a vanishing dragon her gold hair-pin has dropped in the grass her emerald hair clasp is in the dust the magpies 8 are gone, the needle of the Double Seventh Festival rests idle the love belt is broken, and who is there to weave the multicoloured silk thread?
In this autumn season ruled over by the White Emperor, I dream in my lonely bed in a deserted room.
In the dim moonlight under the plane tree, her charming image and sweet spirit have vanished fragrance clings to the lotus curtain, but her scented breath and easy talk are no more.
Withered grass stretches to the horizon, and everywhere crickets keep up a mournful chirping.
In the evening the mossy steps are wet with dew, but no sound of pounding clothes comes through the portiere.
As rain pat- 2411 ters down on the vine-covered wall, one hardly hears fluting from the other court.
The cockatoo before the eaves still remembers her sweet name the begonia withering outside the balustrade foretold her death.
No more games of hide-and-seek behind the screen, her dainty footsteps are silent no more matching-herbs contests in the court where orchids burgeon in vain.
The embroidery thread cast aside, who is there to decide the coloured patterns on silk?
Linen crumpled, who is there to iron and scent it?
Yesterday, on my fathers orders, I was borne far off in a carriage to another garden today offending my mother, I wept over the removal of her lonely bier.
When I heard that her coffin was to be cremated I blushed with shame at breaking my vow to die, be buried and reduced to ashes together with her!
By the old temple in the autumn wind, will-o-the-wisps are lingering on the desolate mount in the setting sun, a few scattered bones only remain elm trees rustle tangled artemisia sighs gibbons wail beyond the misty wilderness ghosts weep around the foggy graveyard pathways.
The young lording behind red gauze curtains is filled with longing for the ill-fated maid in her mound of yellow earth.
Facing the west wind, for you I shed tears of blood, while the master of Zi Ze 9 pours out his grief to the cold moon in silence.
Alas!
This calamity was caused by evil spirits, not because the gods were jealous.
Slashing the slanderers mouth would be too good for her!
Cutting out the shrews heart could not vent my anger!
Though you had a short stay on earth, so deep was my feeling for you that I took careful thought and made detailed inquiries.
Then I learned that the Heavenly Emperor had graciously summoned you to the Palace of Flowers for in life you were like an orchid, and in death you are in charge of the hibiscus.
Though the young maids words seemed fantastic, in my humble opinion there are good grounds for them.
Of old, Ye Fashan 10 summoned a spirit to write an epitaph for him, and Li He 1 was ordered by Heaven to make a record-different happenings but the same in principle.
For suitable tasks are selected for different talents, and the wrong choice of person would do the flowers injustice.
This convinces me that the Heavenly Emperor makes most fitting use of his power, appointing those best suited to each post.
In the hope that her immortal spirit may descend here, I offer my poor composition for her compassionate ears.
And here is the song to summon her spirit 2413 -400 Grey, grey is the sky!
Are you riding a jade dragon in the void?
Vast, vast is the earth!
Are you descending in jade and ivory carriage?
So bright and sparkling your canopy Is it the radiance from the zodiacs tail?
Are there coloured plumes leading the way And on either side constellations?
Are you escorted by the God of Clouds, Approaching with the Courier God of the Moon?
I hear the creaking of your carriage wheels Are you coming in a phoenix equipage?
I smell a subtle fragrance Are you wearing scented herbs?
Sparkling the light from your skirt Have you carved the bright moon for your pendant?
On an altar of luxuriant orchid leaves I burn scented oil in lotus lamps, And pour you osmanthus wine In goblets of gourds.
Gazing intently through the cloudy air I seem to glimpse some vision Bending over the depth to listen, Methinks I catch a sound.
Can you, roaming through boundless space, Bear abandoning me in the dust?
If I beg the God of Wind to drive my carriage, May I hope to ride with you?
Wrathful is my heart, -400 But what use is it lamenting?
You are resting now in peace Is it destiny that has thus changed my life?
Tranquil you sleep in your secluded vault Can you leave it to change once more?
I remain enfettered here.
Ah, spirit, will you come at my call?
Are you approaching or tarrying?
Come, I implore you!
Since you live in the silent unknown, even if you approach me my eyes cannot see you.
With ivy as your screen, rush-swords as your retinue, you rouse the willows to open their drowsy eyes and dispel the bitterness in lotus seeds.
Met by the Goddess of Music at Cassia Cliff, you are welcomed by the Goddess of the River Luo 12 at Orchid Isle Nong Yu 13 plays the flute and Han Huang 14 sounds the clapper to summon the Queen of Mount Song and the Dowager of Mount Li.
15 The Divine Tortoise manifests itself in the River Luo, wild beasts dance to the melody Xianchi, 16 dragons sing below the Red Stream, and phoenixes alight at the Pearl Forest.
I am sacrificing with sincerity, caring little what sacrificial vessels I am using.
Setting out in your chariot from the City of Bright Morning Clouds, 17 you return with your banners to the Hanging Garden.
18 One moment your form seems faintly visible, the next it is suddenly blotted out by mist.
The clouds and mist converge, then part again fog and rain obscure the sky then the mist withdraws, high above gleam stars, and the moon in mid sky brightens the hills and streams.
My heart is beating fast, like one just waking from a dream.
I weep with longing and shed tears, not knowing where to go.
All human voices are hushed the only sounds are the rustling of bamboo, birds taking wing in fright, fish blowing bubbles.... -1119 In my grief I invoke you and, these rites at an end, look for some sign.
Ah, may your spirit come to the sacrifice!
After chanting this he burned the silk and poured a libation of tea, still reluctant to leave the place.
The young maid had to urge him several times before he turned away.
Then, abruptly, they heard laughter behind some rocks.
Please wait a bit!
cried a voice.
The two of them gave a start.
And the maid looking back, saw a figure emerging from behind the hibiscus blooms.
Help!
A ghost!
she cried.
Qingwens spirit has really come!
Baoyu in fright turned to look too.
To know whether or not it was a ghost, read the next chapter.
Chapter 79 Xue Pan Marries a Fierce Lioness and Repents Too Late Yingchun Is Wrongly Wedded to an Ungrateful Wolf Baoyu, after sacrificing to Qingwen, was startled to hear a voice from the shade of the flowers.
Stepping forward to investigate, he found it was no other than Daiyu.
What an original funeral ode!
she teased, smiling all over her face.
It deserves to be passed down with that epitaph commemorating Cao E, 1 the filial daughter.
Baoyu blushed.
The usual run of funeral odes seem to me so stereotyped, he explained, I tried to use a new form.
It was just for fun I never thought youd hear it.
If it wont do, why dont you suggest some improvements?
Where is your draft?
I must read it carefully.
I didnt hear the whole long piece, only the two lines -1262 The young lordling behind red gauze curtains is filled with longing -763 For the ill-fated maid in her mound of yellow earth.
Thats a felicitous couplet, except that red gauze curtains is rather trite.
There are real-life images ready at hand why not use one of those?
He hastily asked what she meant.
We all have rosy-cloud gauze pasted on latticed windows nowadays, she replied.
Why not say Under madder-gauze window, a young lording filled with longing ?
Baoyu stamped his foot in approval.
Excellent!
Just the thing!
he exclaimed.
Trust you to think up such a phrase.
It shows there are plenty of good ready-made scenes and images from olden days down to the present, but stupid fools cant trot 2419 them out or recall them.
Still, though this is a marvellous change youve made, it describes the place where you live its too good for me.
He disclaimed over and over, I am unworthy!
Daiyu laughed.
What does it matter?
My window can be your window.
Why must you draw such distinctions as if we were strangers?
In ancient times, even strangers sometimes shared the same horse and fur coat without worrying if they got spoilt and look how much closer we are.
Among friends one shouldnt be stingy even with gold and jade, to say nothing of horses and furs, he agreed.
Still, disrespect to a lady is quite out of the question.
So Ill tell you what, I may as well change the lordling and maid and make it your lament for her that would be better.
Besides, you used to be very good to her too.
Id rather scrap the whole thing than give up this new madder-gauze image.
So suppose we change it to -1262 Below the madder-gauze window, a young lady filled with longing Under the yellow mound, her ill-fated maid.
Though this new version has nothing to do with me, Im just as satisfied with it.
But she wasnt my maid, so how can you say that?
Besides, young lady and maid lack elegance.
Wait till my Zijuan dies, it wont be too late for me to use that phrase then.
Baoyu laughed.
Why bring bad luck on her with such talk?
It was your idea, not mine.
I know what.
Heres a more appropriate change.
Lets say -763 Below the madder-gauze window, I have no good fortune Under the yellow mound, how ill-fated you are!
Daiyu abruptly turned pale, filled with misgivings by these ominous words.
But instead of disclosing this she smiled and nodded.
That really is a change for the better.
Dont make any more alterations, but go quickly now to see to your proper business.
Just now your mother sent word that first thing tomorrow youre to go to your Aunt 2421 Xings place.
Your Second Sisters been chosen by some family so probably they want you to go over when those people call to make a formal request for her hand.
Whats the hurry?
Im not feeling too well, I may not be up to going over tomorrow, he said, clapping his hands.
There you go again!
Take my advice and stop being so wayward.
Youre not a child any more.... As she spoke, she started coughing.
The winds cold here, he put in hastily.
Its silly to stay standing here.
Do hurry back.
Im going home to rest.
See you tomorrow.
With that Daiyu started back, and Baoyu was turning back listlessly too when it occurred to him that Daiyu had no one to escort her so he hastily told the young maid to see her home.
When he reached Happy Red Court, sure enough Lady Wang had sent a nanny to tell him to go to Jia Shes place the next morning, as Daiyu had just told him.
Jia She had promised Yingchun to a family named Sun from Datong Prefecture, one of whose ancestors, a military officer, had been taken as a pupil by the Jias thus both families could be considered as friends of long standing.
The only Sun now in the capital was a police commissioner named Sun Shaozu, not yet thirty.
A big man with a powerful physique, he was a good archer and horseman and well versed in the ways of society.
His family was rich, and he was now waiting for some better appointment when some vacancy should occur in the Ministry of War.
As he was not yet married and the Suns were old friends, and as moreover his appearance and estate were suitable, Jia She approved of him and had chosen him to be his son-in-law.
When he reported this to the Lady Dowager, she was not too pleased.
However, she felt that if she raised objections he might not listen, and that young peoples marriages were decreed by Heaven besides, as this was Yingchuns own fathers decision, why should she be officious?
So she just said, I see, with no further comment.
Jia Zheng, however, had a deep aversion to the Suns, for although their families had long been connected this was simply because Suns grandfather, wanting to make use of the Jias influence to settle some 2423 private troubles, had formally acknowledged them as his teachers.
They were not a family of well known literati.
Hence Jia Zheng advised against the match once or twice, but desisted when Jia She paid no attention.
Baoyu had never set eyes on this Sun Shaozu, so the next day he had to go over for courtesys sake to meet him.
When he heard that the wedding would soon be taking place, that Yingchun would be going to her new home within the year and that Lady Xing and others had asked the old ladys permission to take her out of the Garden, he grew more and more dismayed.
Often lost in thought, he did not know what to do.
And now the news that Yingchun would be taking four maids with her when she married made him stamp his feet.
Thatll be five less clean people in the world!
he sighed.
He took to going every day to wander around Purple Caltrop Isle.
He found the lodge there quiet and deserted, with only a few old women in charge of the place at night.
Even the reeds and smartweed on the bank and the caltrops and water-weeds in the pool had a disconsolate look, as if longing for their old friends, not flaunting their autumn splendour as before.
Struck by this scene of desolation, he could not contain his feelings but then and there made up a song which he chanted as follows -763 A pool at night the chilly autumn wind The red-jade shadows of caltrop apart has tossed Smartweed and caltrop are overcome by grief, Their slender stems weighed down by dew and frost.
No more the chess-men clatter all day long, The board by swallow droppings is defiled.
The men of old longed for departed friends, Much more so I your kinsman since a child.
Baoyu had just declaimed this when he heard a laughing voice behind him call Are your wits wandering again?
Looking over his shoulder he saw that it was Xiangling.
He turned with a smile to ask her What are you doing here, sister?
You havent come to the Garden to stroll for days.
Xiangling clapped her hands.
2425 Its not that I didnt want to, she cried gaily.
But now that your Cousin Pan is back, Im no longer free to do whatever I please.
Just now our mistress sent to find your Cousin Xifeng but she wasnt at home and they said shed come to the Garden.
When I heard that, I asked for this errand and came to look for her.
One of her maids whom I met told me shes in Paddy-Sweet Cottage, so I was on my way there when I came across you.
Tell me Is Sister Xiren keeping well these days?
What carried off Sister Qingwen so suddenly?
Just what illness did she have?
And why did Miss Yingchun move out so quickly?
See how empty this place has become!
Baoyu answered her queries as quickly as he could, then invited her to Happy Red Court for some tea.
Ive no time just now, said Xiangling.
Ill come after Ive found Madam Lian and delivered my message.
What business is this thats so urgent?
Its to do with your Cousin Pans wedding, thats why its urgent.
Tell me, which family is she from after all?
Theyve been debating it for half a year one day it was to be the Zhangs, next the Lis, then the Wangs.
What wrong have the girls in those families done to deserve so much talk about them?
Well, its settled now, Xiangling told him.
No other families need be dragged in.
Which family has been settled on?
Last time your cousin went on a business trip, he called on some relatives on the way.
Theyve been related to us since way back and are also registered in the Board of Revenue as purchasing agents for the court theyre one of the wealthiest families around.
When the mistresses were chatting the other day, it turned out that your two mansions know this family too.
The whole capital, from nobles down to tradesmen, all call that family the Osmanthus Xias.
How did they get that name?
Well, their surname is Xia, and they are rolling in wealth.
Apart from other landed property, they have several hundred acres growing nothing but osmanthus trees.
They own all the shops in the capital selling osmanthus, and they supply the Palace too with all those needed for display.
Thats 2427 how they came by this name.
Now old Mr. Xia is dead his widow lives with her daughter and there are no sons its too bad that their male branch has died out.
Never mind that, said Baoyu.
Whats the girl like?
How did he come to take a fancy to her?
Its partly fate, and partly a case of Beauty is in the eye of the beholder.
In the old days the two families were on close terms and as children they played together.
Since they rank as cousins, they didnt have to avoid each other according to the rules of propriety.
And though they hadnt met for so many years, as soon as he visited her family old Mrs. Xia, having no son herself, sturck by your cousins good looks shed tears of joy, more delighted than if he had been her own son.
She presented the two young people to each other.
Well, the girl whod grown up as pretty as a flower was taught to read and write at home so your cousin made up his mind then and there.
The Xia family entertained him for three or four days, and those old pawnshop assistants of his as well, pressing them to stay even longer, and only letting them leave when they absolutely insisted.
As soon as your cousin got home, he pestered our mistress to ask for the girls hand.
As she had seen the girl and the two families were well matched, she agreed.
She talked it over with your mother and Madam Lian, then sent someone to propose the marriage, and it was immediately settled.
Only theres so little time left before the wedding that were rushed off our feet.
The sooner she comes the better, I say.
Then we shall have one extra poetess!
Baoyu smiled wanly.
Still, Im rather worried for you.
Xiangling flushed.
What a thing to say!
Weve always treated each other with respect, but now youre suddenly talking like this the idea!
No wonder everyone says its no good being too familiar with you.
She turned then and went off.
Baoyu was very much put out.
He stood there in a daze for a while, his thoughts wandering, shedding tears, then returned dejectedly to Happy Red Court.
2429 He passed an uneasy night.
In his dreams he called for Qingwen or had frightening nightmares which gave him no peace.
The next day he had no appetite and ran a fever, all because of the recent happenings the search of the Garden, the dismissal of Siqi, the departure of Yingchun and the death of Qingwen which had filled him with mortification, dread and grief.
And on top of that he had caught cold, so now he fell ill and was confined to his bed.
When the Lady Dowager heard this, she came daily in person to see him.
Lady Wang regretted having scolded him too sharply on Qingwens account, but she gave no outward sign of her remorse, simply ordering the nurses to look after him well and sending doctors twice a day to examine him and prescribe medicine.
Not until a month had passed did Baoyu begin to recover.
He was told to convalesce for a hundred days, touch no greasy food and not stir out of his rooms.
During this whole period he was not even allowed to go to the gate of his court, but only to amuse himself indoors.
After forty of fifty days spent in this way he felt ready to burst from boredom how could he put up with this?
But plead as he might, the old lady and Lady Wang were adamant, and he simply had to accept the situation.
So he fooled about with the maids in every conceivable way.
One day he heard that Xue Pan was giving a feast and opera show to celebrate his wedding, and the party was uncommonly lively.
Told that this young lady from the Xia family was a beauty with literary accomplishments too, he longed to go over then and there to see her.
Some days later he heard that Yingchuns marriage had taken place and grieved deeply that he had been unable to see her off, reflecting that he and his girl cousins had always been together, but were they to meet again after this separation they could not be as intimate as before.
He found it thoroughly exasperating being unable to go and see them now.
However, he had to be patient and amuse himself with his maids.
At least he was spared his fathers constant reproofs and admonitions to study.
So during these hundred days he and his maids rampaged as they pleased, getting up to mischief never heard of before and stopping short only of pulling down Happy Red Court.
We can draw a veil over the details.
2431 Xiangling after scolding Baoyu that day decided that he had been deliberately rude to her.
She thought, No wonder Miss Baochai dared not get too close to him.
I lacked her foresight.
And no wonder Miss Lin keeps quarrelling with him and crying for rage.
He must keep teasing her too.
Id better steer clear of him.
So after that she seldom went into the Garden.
Xue Pans marriage kept her busy every day.
She imagined his new wife would protect her and share her responsibilities, enabling her to lead a quieter life.
And having heard that this young lady was talented as well as beautiful, she assumed she must be refined and gentle too.
She was therefore ten times more eager even than Xue Pan for her arrival.
Finally the day came when the bride arrived, and she began waiting hand and foot on her new mistress.
Now this Miss Xia, who had just turned seventeen, was quite good-looking and had some education.
As regards ability and craftiness, she took after Xifeng.
In one respect only had she been unlucky.
Because her father had died when she was a child, and she had no brothers either, her widowed mother had spoilt this only daughter, doting on her and falling in with all her whims.
Inevitably, this over-indulgence had made her like the brigand Dao Zhi of old she had as high an opinion of herself as if she were a goddess, and treated others like dirt.
In appearance pretty as a flower, at heart she was a termagant.
At home she had vented her temper on her maids, for ever cursing them or beating them.
Now that she was married, she felt it incumbent on her to behave as the mistress of the house, not with the gentle shyness befitting a girl she must show her authority to keep others under her thumb.
In view, moreover, of Xue Pans pig-headed pride and extravagance, she decided she must strike while the iron was hot and tame him completely, or she would never be able to have her own way.
Moreover, the presence of such a charming and talented concubine as Xiangling had filled her with the same resolve as the First Emperor of Song 2 when he decided to wipe out the Prince of Southern Tang, demanding, 3 How can I let another sleep alongside my bed?
As her family owned so many osmanthus trees, she had been given 2433 the pet name Jingui Golden Osmanthus so she forebade the whole household to use these two words.
Any maid careless enough to slip up and do so was severely beaten and punished.
Then, realizing the impossibility of banning any reference to osmanthus, she decided to give the flower a new name and recalling the story of the osmanthus and the Moon Goddess, 4 she changed the name of the flower to moon-goddess flower to add to her own dignity in this way.
Now Xue Pan was a man who would discard the old as soon as he had something new, and one who looked tough but lacked stamina.
Pleased with his new wife at the start, he humoured her.
And Xia Jingui observing this tried to control him more strictly step by step.
For the first month they were on equal terms after two months Xue Pan began to give ground.
One day after drinking he consulted her on something he wished to do and, when she would not hear of it, losing his temper he made an angry retort then went ahead and did it.
Then Jingui cried as if she were demented, refused all food and pretended to be ill.
The doctor summoned to see her said She has anger in her blood and should take some tranquillizing medicine.
Aunt Xue berated her son.
Youre a married man now and will soon have a son of your own, yet youre still such a fool!
she fumed.
She was brought up like a young phoenix, a daughter as delicate as a flower and her family agreed to let you have her, thinking you a gentleman.
Yet instead of keeping yourself in check, behaving yourself and living peacefully, you act like an oaf and bully her in your cups.
Youll have to suffer for it and spend money now on medicine.
Xue Pan, filled with remorse by these reproaches, went in to comfort his wife.
But Jingui, delighted to have her mother-in-law take her side, behaved still more arrogantly in her gratification at this and out-manoeuvred him by simply ignoring him.
Not knowing what to do, he had to lump it.
And it took him nearly a fortnight to mollify her.
After that Xue Pan took greater pains not to provoke her, and inevitably this humbled him still more.
Seeing that her husband was lowering his colours and her mother-in-law was good-natured, Jingui pressed her at- 2435 tack by degress.
At first she simply kept Xue Pan under her thumb later she tried artfully to control Aunt Xue as well, and Baochai too.
Baochai had long recognized her impropriety and knew how to cope with it, giving her hints not to over-reach herself.
When Jingui saw that she was not to be bullied, she tried to pick fault with her in various ways but being unable to find any chinks in her armour, she finally had to come to terms with her.
One day Jingui, at a loose end, started chatting with Xiangling and asked about her home district and her parents.
When Xiangling said she could not remember them, Jingui flared up and accused her of deliberately hiding things from her.
She then asked who had given her the name Xiangling, and on being told that it was Baochai she gave a scornful smile.
Everyone says shes learned, she scoffed, but this name doesnt make sense.
Xiangling answered with a conciliatory smile, A iya, madam!
You may not know, but even her uncle is always praising her for her scholarship.
To know what Jinguis answer was, read the next chapter.
Chapter 80 Lovely Xiangling Is Unjustly Thrashed by Her Lecherous Husband The Taoist Priest Wang Prascribes a Cure for a Shrew Jingui turned away her head, pursed her lips and snorted.
Striking the palms of both hands together she sneered What scent has the caltrop, pray?
If caltrops count as fragrant, how can we describe those truly fragrant flowers?
This name is certainly senseless!
Not only the caltrop, but even lotus leaves and lotus seed pods have a subtle scent, Xiangling assured her.
But of course it cant compare with the fragrance of flowers.
On a quiet day or night, or at dawn or midnight, if you inhale that scent carefully it smells even better than flowers.
In the breeze or dew, caltrops, euryale seeds, reeds and rushes too, have a subtle fragrance which is very refreshing.
Do you mean to say you dislike the fragrance of orchids and osmanthus?
demanded Jingui.
Xiangling, in the heat of argument, completely forgot the taboo as she answered quickly The fragrance of orchids and osmanthus is unique.... Before she could finish, Jinguis maid Baochan wagged a warning finger at her.
Do you want to die?
Mentioning the mistress name!
I slipped up, apologized Xiangling, embarrassed by her gaffe.
Please dont be offended, madam.
Jingui laughed.
It doesnt matter.
Youre over-scrupulous.
Still, I dont think that Xiang for sweetness in your name is right, Id like to change it for another word, if you agree.
What a thing to say, madam!
cried Xiangling gaily.
I belong to you completely, so why consult me about changing my name?
This is doing me too much honour.
Just use whatever word you think best, madam.
You may agree, but suppose my sister-in-law takes offence?
She may not like the name I choose and say, Shes only been here a few days, but already shes refuting me.
Let me tell you how it is, madam.
When I was bought, it was to serve the old lady thats why Miss Baochai gave me this name.
Later, when I started waiting on our master, that had nothing to do with her.
And now that Im serving you, Miss Baochai has even less to do with me.
Besides, shes such an understanding young lady, how could she take offence?
In that case, lets substitute the Qiu meaning autumn for Xiang.
The caltrop flourishes and flowers in autumn, so that is surely more appropriate.
Just as you say, madam, agreed Xiangling cheerfully.
Thereafter her name was changed to Qiuling, and Baochai raised no objection.
Now Xue Pan was a living example of the saying To cover the land of Shu after getting the region of Long.
After marrying Jingui, he was struck by her maid Baochans charms.
As she seemed approachable as well as alluring, he often flirted with her when asking her to fetch him tea or water.
Baochan knew what he wanted, but dared not encourage him until she knew how her mistress felt about it.
Jingui was well aware of what was happening.
Its Xiangling I want to trap, but I cant find any pretext, she reflected.
As hes keen on Baochan now, I may as well let him have her and hes bound to lose interest in Xiangling.
Then I can settle her hash.
Since Baochan is my maid, shell be easy to handle later.
Her mind made up, she waited for her chance.
One evening after drinking, Xue Pan ordered Baochan to bring him some tea.
Before taking the cup he squeezed her hand and Baochan, pretending to shrink away, let the cup fall with a clatter to her ground, splashing her clothes as well as the floor with tea.
To cover his confusion, Xue Pan accused the maid of carelessness.
She retorted, You didnt take it properly sir.
Jingui smiled sarcastically.
Youre both pretty obvious.
Do you take me for a fool?
Xue Pan lowered his head with a sheepish smile and said nothing as Baochan left the room, blushing.
Later, at bedtime, Jingui deliberately urged her husband to sleep elsewhere.
I dont want to see you eating your heart out, she said.
He simply grinned.
If you want something, tell me, she continued.
Acting on the sly is no good.
Emboldened by wine, Xue Pan knelt on the quilt and nuzzled her.
Good sister, just give me Baochan and Ill do whatever you say!
If you want someones brains, Ill get them for you!
What senseless talk!
she retorted.
If youve taken a fancy to someone, say so outright, and we can make her your concubine to avoid any hint of scandal.
Why should I care?
Xue Pan was so delighted with this assurance that he thanked her most profusely and did his best to pleasure her as a husband should that night.
The next day he stayed indoors killing time at home, feeling increasingly randy.
After lunch, Jingui deliberately went out to clear the coast for them both, and Xue Pan started making advances to Baochan.
Well aware of what he wanted, she only made a show of resisting.
And he was about to have his way with her when Jingui who had waited till she reckoned that they would be locked together, called for young Sheer, a maid she had brought from her home.
Being an orphan with no one to care for her, this girl had been given the name She meaning waif and assigned rough jobs to do.
Now, according to her plan, Jingui summoned her.
Go and get Qiuling to fetch my handkerchief from my room, she ordered.
No need to tell her that these are my instructions.
Sheer went straight to find Xiangling.
Miss Qiuling, our mistress has left her handkerchief in her room, she said.
Wouldnt you like to fetch it and take it to her?
Now Xiangling, upset by all Jinguis recent unkindness to her, had been trying in every way to placate her so on hearing this she hurried to her mistress room.
All unwittingly she burst in just as the two of them were setting to work.
Flushing crimson up to her ears, she promptly fled.
As Xue Pan felt he had cleared himself with his wife, and apart from her there was no one he need be afraid of, he had not even bothered to bolt the door.
Thus when Xiangling burst in, although a little put out he did not much care.
Baochan, however, had a sharp tongue and a strong sense of self-importance.
Xianglings sudden intrusion made her wish the earth would swallow her up.
At once she pushed Xue Pan away and rushed out of the room crying rape.
Xue Pan had been to great pains getting hold of Baochan.
Now his frustration, owing to Xiangling, naturally turned his excitement into savage hatred for her.
He ran out and spat at her.
You damn bitch!
he swore.
Why come barging in here now?
Xiangling, knowing that she was in trouble, darted away.
Then Xue Pan looked for Baochan and, failing to find her, loosed off more abuse at Xiangling.
After dinner that evening, befuddled with wine, he happened to scald his feet because the bath water was rather hot.
Blaming this on Xiangling he ran out, stark naked as he was, to kick and beat her.
The poor girl had never been treated so badly before, but there was nothing she could do except to slip away nursing her grievance.
By now Jingui had told Baochan in confidence to spend the night with Xue Pan in Xianglings room and become his concubine.
When Xiangling, ordered to sleep with her, demurred, she accused her of thinking her bed too dirty or of being too lazy to wait on her mistress at night.
That oaf of a master of yours falls for every girl he sees, she swore.
Hes grabbed my maid, yet doesnt send you to attend me.
Whats his idea?
Is he trying to hound me to death?
Xue Pan, hearing this, feared he might be thwarted again and therefore joined in too.
You ungrateful bitch!
he roared at Xiangling.
Go on at once, or Ill beat you!
Xiangling had no choice but to carry her bedding over.
And when Jingui ordered her to sleep on the floor, again she had to comply.
But no sooner had she lain down than Jingui called for tea, then presently told her to massage her legs, rousing her seven or eight times altogether, so that there was no sleep for Xiangling that night.
Now that Xue Pan had got possession of Baochan whom he prized as a great treasure, he had no attention to spare for anyone else, much to Jinguis disgust.
Ill let you enjoy yourself for a few days, she thought spitefully.
But dont blame me when by and by I get my own back!
Meanwhile, hiding her resentment, she went on tormenting Xiangling.
After a fortnight she suddenly shammed ill, complaining of an unbearable pain in her heart and the loss of the use of her limbs.
The doctors summoned were unable to cure her, and the household ascribed this illness to her anger caused by Xiangling.
Then one day, from Jinguis pillow-case there fell out a paper effigy inscribed with the date of her birth and her horoscope.
Five needles had been thrust through it one through the heart and one through each of the limbs.
This discovery caused a commotion among the maids who reported it at once to Aunt Xue, making her consternated at first.
Xue Pan, even more worked up, wanted to beat all the servants to extort a confession from them.
That wouldnt be fair, said Jingui.
This black magic is most likely Baochans doing.
It couldnt be, he objected.
Shes not been in your room recently.
Why accuse an innocent person?
Jingui smiled sarcastically.
Who else could it be?
Do you imagine I did it myself?
Who else dares enter my room?
Xiangling should know shes spent all her time with you lately.
Lets beat her first, to get the truth out of her.
Whomever you beat, no ones going to confess, scoffed Jingui.
Take my advice and pretend you know nothing about it.
Just let the matter drop.
Anyway, if Im done to death what does it matter?
Wouldnt you love to marry a better wife?
I know very well that the three of you all want me out of the way!
By now she was sobbing.
Goaded by these taunts, Xue Pan grabbed hold of a doorbar and rushed to find Xiangling.
Without giving her a chance to speak he started beating her, insisting that she was the one who had worked this witchcraft.
As Xiangling protested her innocence Aunt Xue came running over to stop her son.
How can you beat her without first investigating?
she scolded.
The girl has served you all these years and always been very dutiful.
How could she do a wicked thing like this?
You must find out the truth before you start laying about you.
At this, Jingui was afraid that Xue Pan might be over-ruled by his mother.
She started bawling again.
For over a fortnight, she wailed, youve monopolized my Baochan and wont let her come to my room, leaving me only Qiuling to sleep with me.
When I want to cross-examine Baochan, you shield her.
Now youre working off your temper by beating Qiuling.
Why not murder me and have done with it?
Then you can choose a beautiful wife from some rich and noble family.
Why play all these silly tricks?
This tirade made Xue Pan still more frantic.
Aunt Xue was furious at Jinguis outrageous, overbearing ways and the pressure she was putting on Xue Pan who, unfortunately, was so spineless that he was used to giving in to her and now his affair with Baochan enabled her to pose as a reasonable, complaisant wife whose maid he had seized.
Aunt Xue, moreover, had no means of knowing who was responsible for the black magic.
Just as Not even good officials can settle family troubles, so Not even parents can settle disputes between son and wife.
Being at a loss, she could do nothing except berate Xue Pan.
You degenerate wretch!
she fumed.
Even a cur in heat is less shameless than you!
So you couldnt even keep your paws off your wifes maid but had to grab her too giving your wife a handle to accuse you of monopolizing her maid.
How can you face people after this?
We dont know who put that spell on her, but instead of finding out the facts you start beating your concubine.
I know you off with the old love and on with the new a poor return for all Ive done for you!
Even if Xiangling did wrong, youve no right to beat her.
I shall send for a broker at once and sell her off to set your mind at rest.
She told Xiangling, Get your things together.
Come on.
She then ordered the servants, Fetch a broker at once.
Well sell her for whatever shell fetch, to rid ourselves of this pest, this thorn in the flesh.
Only then can we have any peace.
Xue Pan hung his head throughout this diatribe, but Jingui who had been eavesdropping called through the window You can sell anyone you want, but why drag in other people?
Am I such a jealous shrew that I cant tolerate a flesh?
Who finds her a pest?
Who thinks her a thorn in the flesh?
If I were the jealous kind, I wouldnt have allowed him to have my maid.
Aunt Xue nearly choked, trembling with anger.
What manners are these?
she spluttered.
When the mother-in-law is talking, how dare her daughter-in-law wrangle with her through the window?
Imagine the daughter of a respectable family raising such a row!
Outrageous, I call it!
Xue Pan stamped his foot frantically.
Do be quiet!
Think how people will laugh if they hear us!
Determined to go the whole hog, Jingui went on ranting more wildly.
Im not afraid if people laugh!
she shrieked.
Why should I be, when your concubine is trying to do me in?
Youd better keep her and sell me instead.
Everyone knows that you Xues have pots of money for bribes, as well as powerful relatives wholl shut peoples mouths.
So go ahead!
What are you waiting for?
If you think Im no good, what blinded you before?
Why keep running to our home to beg for my hand?
Now youve got me as well as all the gold and silver in my dowry.
And my maid, whos not bad-looking, youve even grabbed her too.
So its time to get rid of me!
Screaming, she slapped herself and rolled on the ground.
Xue Pan was too frantic to know what to do remonstrate, reason and plead with her, or beat her.
He stumped in and out of the room, sighing and fuming, cursing his own bad luck.
Meanwhile Baochai had persuaded her mother to go back to her own room, but she insisted that Xiangling must be sold.
Our family only buys maids, never sells any, Baochai pointed out.
Your angers making you talk foolishly, mother.
If outsiders come to hear of this, how theyll laugh!
If my brother and sister-in-law dislike her, why not keep her to wait on me?
I need another maid.
If shes kept itll cause more trouble.
Far simpler to throw her out.
If shes with me that will be the same anyway.
I wont let her go to their quarters in the front, so shell be entirely cut off from them, just as if shed been sold.
Xiangling had already run up to Aunt Xue and tearfully begged her not to drive her away but to let her wait on Miss Baochai.
So finally Aunt Xue relented.
After that, Xiangling moved into Baochais quarters and had no more to do with the young couple still, she could not help bewailing her fate to the moon and sighing before the lamp.
Though she had lived with Xue Pan for several years, because of irregular menses she had never conceived a child.
Now anger and grief further undermined her health, and these upsets aggravated her anaemia.
She fell into a consumption and lost her appetite.
Doctors were called in, but their medicines failed to cure her.
Meanwhile Jingui continued to make scenes, upsetting Aunt Xue and Baochai but all they could do was to shed tears in secret as they lamented their fate.
Two or three times Xue Pan, emboldened by wine, stormed at his wife and threatened her with a stick, but Jingui simply dared him to beat her.
When he threatened her with a knife, she stretched out her neck and challenged him to kill her.
Then, unable to bring himself to it, he could only rage for a while.
When this had happened several times, Jingui became even more over-bearing and Xue Pan even more spineless.
With Xiangling still in the house, Jingui could never be fully at ease however, she let her be for the time being, as she was no longer an annoyance to her.
It was now with Baochan that she started finding fault.
But Baochan, unlike Xiangling, had a fiery temper and as she was on good terms with Xue Pan she felt she could afford to ignore her mistress.
When Jingui tried to bully her, she refused to give ground.
At first they simply wrangled.
Then Jingui, when in a temper, would curse and beat her.
Though Baochan could not strike back she would throw a tantrum, roll on the ground and threaten to kill herself, searching for knives or Xue Pan, unable to cope with the two of them, could only pace to and fro between both women, watching.
If they became too rowdy, he would go out and keep away from the house.
When Jingui happened to be in a good mood, she would gather a party together to play cards, dice and make merry.
All her life she had loved gnawing bones, so she had chickens or ducks killed every day and the meat given to others while she herself chewed the fried bones to go with her wine.
When she tired of this, or when anything offended her, she would flare up and begin scolding again.
If ponces and strumpets can enjoy themselves, why shouldnt I?
she would clamour.
Aunt Xue and Baochai paid no attention to her.
And by now Xue Pan too was helpless, only regretting day and night that he had married this monster.
They were all at their wits end.
High and low in the Ning and Rong Mansions knew of this, and none of them but deplored it.
By this time Baoyus hundred days confinement was up and he was allowed out of doors.
Coming over to call on Jingui, he found nothing outrageous in her looks or behaviour she seemed just as lovely as the other girls so he was mystified and amazed by her bad reputation.
One day when he went to pay his respects to his mother, he found Yingchuns nanny there too, telling Lady Wang what a reprobate Sun Shaozu was.
All our young lady can do is to cry in secret, she said.
Shes longing to be fetched home, to have a few days respite.
The last couple of days Ive been thinking of sending for her, answered Lady Wang.
But so many troubles cropped up that it slipped my mind.
The other day Baoyu called there, and when he came back he made the same suggestion.
Well, tomorrows an auspicious day well send to fetch her.
Just then a servant arrived from the Lady Dowager to tell Baoyu to go first thing the next day to Tianqi Temple, in order to offer thanks for his recovery.
As Baoyu was only too eager for any outing, these instructions so delighted him that he could hardly close his eyes all night as he waited for day to break.
The next morning after he had washed and dressed, accompanied by two or three old nurses he went by carriage out of the West Gate to burn incense and offer thanks in Tianqi Temple, where all the preparations for this had been made the previous day.
Baoyu, being naturally timid, kept away from the fierce-looking images of gods and demons there.
For this magnificent temple had been built in an earlier dynasty but then neglected for so many years that all the clay sculptures there struck him as monstrous and left him aghast.
After hastily burning the sacrificial paper, Baoyu retired to a quiet room to rest.
When he had been served a meal, the old nurses, Li Gui and others strolled with him through the temple grounds till he was tired, when they took him back inside for another rest.
Not wanting him to go to sleep, the nurses fetched Old Wang, the Taoist priest in charge of the temple, to divert him.
This old Taoist, formerly an itinerant vendor of medicine, had made a considerable profit out of his nostrums and outside the temple hung a notice to the effect that pills, salves, plasters and powders of every kind were obtainable here.
This priest also frequented the Ning and Rong Mansions, where he had come to be known as One-Plaster Wang for he claimed that his plasters were so efficacious that each could cure all manner of different ailments.
When One-Plaster Wang entered the room, Baoyu was lying drowsily on the kang while Li Gui and the others were urging him not to sleep.
At sight of the priest they cried, Youve come just at the right time, father!
Youre so good at spinning yarns, wont you tell our young master some story?
One-Plaster Wang laughed.
Quite right.
You mustnt fall asleep after eating the gluten in that vegetarian meal, or itll play tricks in your belly!
The whole room laughed, Baoyu too, as he got up and straightened his clothes.
Then One-Plaster Wang ordered his acolytes to make them some good, strong tea.
Mingyan interposed, Our master wont drink your tea.
Even sitting in this room hes half choked by the smell of your plasters.
We never keep plasters in here, said the priest with a grin.
A few days ago, when I learned that Master Bao would be coming today, I scented this room with incense again and again.
Im always hearing how good your plasters are, remarked Baoyu.
Just what diseases do they cure?
It would take too long to tell you that in full.
I use one hundred and twenty different ingredients which complement each other just as do a prince and his ministers, and co-operate with each other just as do a host and his guests.
Some of them are heating, some cooling, some costly, some cheap.
Inwardly, they fortify the humours, build up the patients strength, improve the appetite, increase resistance, tranquillize the nerves, expel cold and heat, and eliminate indigestion and phlegm.
Outwardly, they regulate the blood, relax the muscles, remove dead tissues and help new ones to grow, cure chills and act as an antidote to poison.
They are marvellously effective, as youd know, sir, if youd tried one.
I can hardly believe that one plaster cures so many different ailments, Baoyu answered.
Id like to know if its any good for a malady I have in mind.
It cures all diseases, One-Plaster Wang asserted.
If it does you no good, you can tweak my beard, slap my old face and pull down my temple hows that?
Just tell me the symptoms of this malady.
Have a guess.
If you guess right, Ill believe in your medicine.
One-Plaster Wang thought for a while.
This is quite a poser, he said at last with a smile.
Im afraid my plaster may not work in this case.
Then Baoyu told Li Gui and the other servants, Go out and have a stroll.
There are too many people in here, its getting stuffy.
The servants withdrew, leaving only Mingyan in attendance.
After he had lighted a stick of Sweet-Dream Incense, Baoyu told him to sit down beside him so that he could lean against him.
At this point, One-Plaster Wang had a sudden idea.
Smiling all over his face, he drew closer to whisper Ive guessed it!
Now that the young gentleman is growing up, I suppose he wants some drug to increase his virility right?
Cutting him short, Mingyan snapped, Shut up, you idiot!
What did he say?
asked Baoyu in bewilderment.
Never mind.
He was talking rot.
One-Plaster Wang was appalled and dared not ask any more questions.
Better tell me outright, sir, he said.
What I wanted to know was this have you a prescription to cure a jealous shrew?
The priest clapped his hands and laughed.
I give up!
Not only have I no such prescription, Ive never even heard of one either.
In that case, Baoyu teased, your plaster doesnt amount to much.
Though Ive no plaster to cure a shrew, there is a potion which might.
Only it takes time it doesnt work overnight.
What potion is that?
And how should it be taken?
Its called Cure for Jealousy.
Take one top-quality pear, one fifth of an ounce of crystal sugar, one tenth of orange peel and three bowls of water.
Boil these till the pear is soft, and let the shrew take one does first thing each day.
Then in due course shell be cured.
That wouldnt cost much, but I doubt whether it would work.
If one dose doesnt do the trick, give ten.
If shes not cured today, repeat the treatment tomorrow.
If it doesnt work this year, go on with it next year.
At any rate, these ingredients arent injurious but good for the lungs and digestion.
This sweet potion cures coughs and tastes delicious too.
If she takes it for a hundred years shell die in any case, and once dead how can she go on being jealous?
So in the end it will prove efficacious.
By now Baoyu and Mingyan were roaring with laughter.
You oily-mouthed ox!
they cried.
What does it matter?
chuckled One-Plaster Wang.
I was just whiling away the time to stop you from felling sleepy.
Its worth money, making you laugh.
To tell you the truth, even my plasters are bogus.
If I had some really good medicine, Id take it myself so as to become an immortal instead of coming here to fool around.
By this time it was the hour for the sacrifice, and they asked Baoyu to go out to burn sacrificial paper, pour a libation of wine and distribute alms.
The sacrifice ended, he went back to the city.
By now Yingchun had already been home for some time.
When the women from the Sun family who had come with her had been entertained to dinner and sent home, Yingchun, shedding tears in Lady Wangs room, described her wretchedness.
Sun Shaozu cares for nothing but women, gambling and drinking, she sobbed.
Hes had affairs with practically all our maids and young servants wives.
When I demonstrated mildly two or three times, he cursed me for being jealous, saying I must have been steeped in vinegar.
He also says he put five thousand taels in fathers safe-keeping and he shouldnt have spent it.
Hes come here several times to ask for it back, and when he fails to get it he points at me and scolds, Dont put on those ladified airs with me!
Your old man has spent five thousand taels of mine so hes sold you to me.
If you dont behave yourself, Ill beat you up and send you to sleep with the servants.
When your grandfather was alive, seeing how rich and influential our family was, he went to great trouble to get connected with us.
Actually, I belong to your fathers generation.
It was a mistake my marrying you because thats made me step down one generation, as if I were the one chasing after power and profit.
She wept as she spoke, and Lady Wang and all the girls shed tears too.
Lady Wang said soothingly, Youve already married this oaf, so it cant be helped.
Your uncle did advise your father against it, but he wouldnt listen hed set his heart on this match.
And now its turned out badly.
Well, child, this is fate.
I cant believe I was fated to suffer like this, sobbed Yingchun.
I lost my mother when I was a child, and was lucky to have a few peaceful years here with you, auntie.
But now see whats become of me!
Lady Wang, trying to console her, asked where she would like to stay.
Being snatched away so suddenly from my cousins, I dream of them all the time, Yingchun replied.
I long for my old rooms too.
If I can spend a few more days in my old quarters in the Garden, then I shall die content.
Who knows if Ill ever have such a chance again.
Dont talk so wildly, interposed Lady Wang.
Little squabbles between young couples are quite common.
Why speak in that ill-omened way?
She ordered the house at Purple Caltrop Isle to be made ready at once, and told the girls to keep Yingchun company and cheer her up.
To Baoyu she said, Mind you dont breathe a word about this to the old lady!
If she gets to hear of it, Ill hold you to blame.
Baoyu promised to keep quiet.
That evening Yingchun stayed in her old quarters, and her girl cousins and the maids lavished affection on her.
After three days, however, she had to go to stay with Lady Xing.
First she took her leave of the Lady Dowager and Lady Wang.
When it came to saying goodbye to the girls, she was prostrated by grief.
It was Lady Wang and Aunt Xue who soothed her and finally persuaded her to stop weeping and go over to the other mansion, where she spent a couple of days with Lady Xing.
Then Sun Shaozu sent to fetch her back and, though Yingchun dreaded returning, for fear of her cruel husband she had to hold back her grief and take her leave.
As for Lady Xing, she was so callous that she had not even asked Yingchun how she got on with her husband, or whether her household was difficult to manage, simply entertaining her in the most perfunctory manner.
To know what the outcome was, read the next chapter.
Chapter 81 Four Beauties Fish in the Pond to Try Their Luck Baoyus Father Orders Him Back to the Family School After Yingchuns departure, Lady Xing behaved just as if nothing had happened.
Lady Wang, however, who had brought Yingchun up, was bitterly distressed.
She was sighing to herself in her room when Baoyu came in to pay his respects.
Noticing the tear-stains on her cheeks he did not venture to take a seat, simply standing on one side till she urged him to mount the kang and sit beside her.
His mother saw from the dazed look on his face that he had something on his mind.
Whats worrying you now?
she asked.
Its nothing really.
But after hearing yesterday what poor Yingchun has to put up with, I feel its truly too much for her to bear!
I didnt dare tell grandmother, but it kept me from sleeping all night.
How can girls from a family like ours stand such cruel treatment?
Yingchun especially, whos always been too timid to answer anyone back.
Yet now she of all people is up against such an inhuman monster, who has no idea how sensitive a girl is.
As he spoke his eyes brimmed with tears.
Theres no help for it, Lady Wang answered.
As the saying goes, A married daughter spilt water.
So what can I do about it?
Last night I had an idea.
Suppose we talk grandmother into having Cousin Yingchun fetched back?
Then she can go on staying in Purple Caltrop Isle, eating and playing with us just like in the old days, instead of being bullied by that scoundrel Sun.
When he sends to fetch her back we wont let her go, not even if he sends a hundred times!
Well just tell him this is the old ladys decision.
Dont you think thats a good plan?
Both amused and exasperated, his mother exclaimed, There you go again talking nonsense!
Sooner or later a girl has to leave home, and once shes married off what can her mothers family do for her?
If she happens to get a good husband, fine if not, theres no help for it thats fate.
Surely you know the saying, Many a cock and follow the cock many a dog and follow the dog?
How can every girl be like your eldest sister, chosen as an Imperial Consort?
Besides, Yingchuns newly married her husbands still young.
Peoples temperaments differ, and just at the start shes bound to feel a bit awkward.
A few years from now, when they know each other better and have a child or two, things should work out all right.
Mind you dont breathe a word about this to the old lady.
If I find you have, youll catch it!
Go and see to your own affairs now.
Dont stay here talking nonsense.
Baoyu sat there a little longer in subdued silence, then listlessly took his leave.
Thoroughly depressed and not knowing how to work off his feelings, he went back to the Garden, straight to Bamboo Lodge.
Once inside, he burst out crying.
Daiyu, who had just finished dressing, was most alarmed to see the state he was in.
Whats happened?
she asked.
Whos been annoying you?
Although she repeated her questions several times, Baoyu just went on sobbing, his head bent over the table, unable to speak.
She sat on a chair in bewilderment to watch him.
Has someone else provoked you?
Or have I offended you?
she asked presently.
No, neither!
he blurted out with a sweep of one hand.
Well, whats upset you then?
I cant help thinking that the sooner we all die the better!
Life is really so meaningless.
What are you talking about?
she asked, more puzzled than ever.
Have you taken leave of your senses?
No, I havent.
If I tell you, it will upset you too.
You saw how wretched Yingchun looked yesterday, and heard all that she said.
Why must a girl get married when she grows up?
Thats what Id like to know.
Why put up with such bad treatment from her husband?
I still remember what fun we had when we started our Begonia Club, making up poems and acting as host in turn.
Now Cousin Baochai has gone home, even Xiangling cant come here any more and on top of that, Yingchun has left us to get married.
With these congenial spirits gone, whats to become of us?
I wanted to ask grandmother to have Yingchun fetched back, but mother wont hear of it.
She called me silly, said I was talking nonsense, and I dared not argue with her.
Such a short time, and just see how the Garden has changed!
If this goes on a few years more, goodness knows what it will be like.
The more I think about it, the sadder I feel.
Daiyu, while he was speaking, had gradually lowered her head and withdrawn to the kang.
Now, without saying a word, she heaved a sigh and lay down with her face to the wall.
Zijuan, who had just brought in tea, was puzzled to find the two of them like this.
And now Xiren arrived.
So here you are, Second Master, she said to Baoyu.
The old ladys been asking for you, and I guessed youd be here.
Daiyu rose at this to offer Xiren a seat.
Baoyu noticed that her eyes were red from weeping.
Cousin, I was only talking nonsense just now.
Dont let it upset you, he pleaded.
Take my advice and look after your health.
Have a rest now.
Ill be back when Ive seen what the old lady wants me for.
After he had gone, Xiren asked what had happened.
He was upset on account of Cousin Yingchun, Daiyu answered.
I was rubbing my eyes because they itched thats all.
Xiren made no comment but hurried out after Baoyu, then went on her own way while he proceeded to his grandmothers quarters.
As she was already having her siesta, he returned to Happy Red Court.
That afternoon when Baoyu got up from his nap, feeling thoroughly bored he picked up a book at random.
Xiren seeing this went out to brew him some tea.
The book he had happened to take was an anthology of ancient songs, and leafing through it he came upon Cao Caos verse -763 Facing the wine let us sing, -755 For life is short.
In dismay, he put it down and picked up a collection of Jin Dynasty prose.
After turning a few pages only, however, he closed the book abruptly and rested his chin on his hands, lost in thought.
This was how Xiren discovered him when she brought in the tea.
-386 Why have you stopped reading?
she asked.
Instead of answering, he merely took the bowl from her, putting it down again after one sip.
Xiren stood beside him watching in mystification till he suddenly stood up.
Transported beyond the earthly form fine!
he muttered.
Xiren was amused but afraid to ask what he meant.
If you dont enjoy reading these books, why not take a stroll in the Garden?
she suggested.
Dont make yourself unwell by moping.
Baoyu agreed to this and walked out, still deep in thought.
Soon he reached Seeping Fragrance Pavilion, but found it looking desolate and deserted.
Going on to Alpinia Court, he was even more dismayed to see its plants as luxuriant as before but the doors and windows closed.
Turning past Scented Lotus Pavilion, he saw a few girls in the distance who were leaning over the railings at Smartweed Bank.
On the ground beside them several young maids were squatting down as if to search for something.
He tiptoed behind a rockery to hear what they were saying.
Lets see whether it rises to the bait, said one girl it sounded like Li Wen.
Good, its gone!
laughed Tanchun.
I knew it wouldnt rise.
Thats right, cousin.
Dont move, just wait, and its bound to surface.
-386 Here it comes!
The last two speakers were Li Qi and Xing Xiuyan.
Baoyu could not resist picking up a stone and tossing it into the pool.
The splash it made startled the four girls.
Whos this practical joker?
they cried.
Giving us such a fright!
He bounded out laughingly then from behind the rockery.
Youre having such a good time why didnt you let me know?
I knew it couldnt be anyone else, said Tanchun.
Only Second Brother would play such a trick.
All right, to make up for that you must catch us some fish.
One was rising to the bait just now, but before we could hook it you frightened it away.
You enjoy yourselves here, leaving me out, he chuckled.
By rights I should penalize you!
They all laughed at that.
Lets all fish to try our luck, proposed Baoyu.
Whoever catches a fish will have good luck this year.
Whoever doesnt will have bad luck.
Wholl start?
Tanchun urged Li Wen to take the lead, but she declined.
In that case Ill start off.
Tanchun turned to Baoyu.
If you drive away my fish again, Second Brother, I shant let you off!
I was trying to scare you for fun just then.
But you can go ahead now, he assured her.
Tanchun cast the line and, in less time than it takes to say ten sentences, a minnow swallowed the bait and the float bobbed down.
With a swing of the rod she landed the little fish alive and thrashing.
Shishu grabbed for it on the ground, then with both hands dropped it into a small porcelain jar filled with clear water.
Tanchun passed the rod to Li Wen, who cast in turn.
When the line twitched she raised the rod, but there was nothing on the hook.
She cast again, but when presently the line tautened again and she pulled it in she once more drew a blank.
She examined the hook then, and found it was bent inwards.
No wonder I caught nothing, she said with a smile, then told Suyun to adjust the hook and bait it with another worm on which a reed had been fixed.
Not long after she cast, the reed submerged, and she hastily landed a tiny carp two inches long.
Now its your turn, Cousin Baoyu, she said with a smile.
Let the other two girls try first, he urged.
Xiuyan said nothing, but Li Qi demurred.
No, Cousin Bao, you try first.
Stop deferring to each other!
cried Tanchun, who had just seen a bubble on the water.
Look, the fish have all gone over to your side.
Go on!
Li Qi took the rod then and very soon made a catch.
When Xiuyan had followed suit and returned the rod to Tanchun, she handed it to Baoyu.
Im going to fish like hang Taigong, 1 he announced as he walked down the stone steps and sat down by the pool.
But his reflection frightened the fish away.
Though he waited there a long time holding the rod, the line still did not move.
And when bubbles rose from one side of the pool, he swung his rod there so fast that the fish made off quickly.
Im impatient but theyre slow coaches!
What shall I do?
Good fish, come quick to my rescue!
he exclaimed so frantically that the four girls laughed.
While Baoyu was still talking, the line twitched.
In delight, he yanked so hard that the rod knocked against a rock and broke into two.
The line snapped as well, so that the hook was lost.
A roar of laughter went up.
Ive never seen anyone so clumsy!
teased Tanchun.
Just then Sheyue hurried towards them, in a great fluster.
The old ladys woken, Master Bao, she cried.
She wants you to go there at once.
This startled all five of them.
What does she want him for?
Tanchun inquired.
I dont know, the maid answered.
I heard say some scandals come to light and she wants to ask Baoyu about it.
Shes going to question Madam Lian as well.
Baoyu was petrified.
Which maid is going to catch it this time?
he wondered.
Weve no idea what its all about, said Tanchun.
Youd better go immediately, Second Brother.
If theres any news, send Sheyue to let us know.
Then the four girls went off.
When Baoyu entered the Lady Dowagers room, he was relieved to find her playing cards there with his mother as if nothing were amiss.
At sight of him she said, The year before last when you fell ill you were cured by a crazy monk and a lame Taoist.
When you had that fit, how did you feel?
Baoyu cast his mind back.
I remember standing up feeling quite all right before the fit came on.
Then it seemed as if someone had clubbed my head from behind, and it hurt so badly that everything went black.
Still, I saw green -faced, long-fanged devils all over the place, who were swinging swords and clubs.
When I lay down on the kang, my head felt as if clamped in a vice.
I passed out from the pain.
When I came round, I remember seeing a shaft of golden light in the hall which shone on to my bed.
All the devils ran away from it and vanished.
My head stopped aching too and my mind cleared.
That sounds like it, observed the old lady to Lady Wang.
At this point Xifeng came in and paid her respects to both her seniors in turn.
What did you want to know, Old Ancestress?
she asked.
Do you still remember what it was like when you were seized by that fit of madness that year?
I cant remember too clearly, was Xifengs answer, But I felt I couldnt control myself, as if someone was pushing and tugging me to kill people.
I tried to seize every weapon I could lay hands on and kill everyone I saw.
Even when I was exhausted, I couldnt stop.
And when you got better?
prompted the old lady.
I thought I heard a voice in the air just what it said I cant remember.
Judging by this, it was her all right, said the Lady Dowager.
The way they felt during their fits coincides with what weve just heard.
How could that old witch be so vicious!
And to think that we chose her to be Baoyus godmother!
It was that monk and priest Buddha be praised!
who saved his life, yet we never thanked them for it.
Why are you interested in our illnesses, madam?
Xifeng wanted to know.
Ask your aunt.
Im too tired to tell you.
Then Lady Wang explained.
Just now the master was here.
He told us that Baoyus godmother was actually a witch who practised black magic.
Now that her secrets out, shes been arrested by the police and taken to prison to be put to death.
A few days ago some fellow Pan Sanbao I think his name was brought evidence against her.
He sold a house to the pawnshop across the street for several times what it was worth, but still wanted more.
The pawnbroker naturally refused this demand.
Then Pan bribed that old witch, as she was for ever calling in at the pawnshop and knew everybody there to cast a spell so that all their women fell ill and their homes were topsy-turvy.
Thereupon she went there claiming that she could cure them, and burnt paper offerings which proved efficacious.
She got several dozen taels from them as well.
But all-seeing Buddha meted out retribution.
She left in such a hurry that day that she let fall a silk bundle, which the shop assistants picked up.
On opening it, they found inside a whole lot of paper figures as well as four pills with a pungent smell.
They were wondering what these could be when the old witch went back for them, and they caught and searched her.
They found on her a box with two carved ivory naked devils inside, one male and one female, besides seven red embroidery needles.
At once she was haled to the police court, where she disclosed many secret affairs of ladies in big official families.
This being reported to the garrison, a search was made of her house and a whole lot of clay devils were brought to light together with some boxes of knockout scent.
In addition, in an unoccupied room behind her kang hung a seven-star lamp, and under it were straw effigies some with iron bands round their heads, some with nails stuck in their chests, some fastened with locks.
In the cupboard was a great stack of paper figures.
And below were account books listing the families which had employed her and the amounts of silver due to her.
She had also collected a good deal of money as donations for oil and incense.
Yes, she must have been our jinx!
Xifeng exclaimed.
After we got well, I remember, that old witch called several times to ask Concubine Zhao for money.
When she saw me, she changed colour and her eyes blazed.
I couldnt guess the reason at the time.
Now its clear what they were up to!
In my case, of course, running the household Im bound to get myself hated by certain people, and its not to be wondered at if they try to kill me.
But what reason has anyone to hate Baoyu?
How could they be so vicious?
I suppose its because I prefer Baoyu to Huan, said the old lady.
That sowed the seeds of hatred.
The old creatures already been sentenced, observed Lady Wang, so we can hardly bring her here as a witness.
But without her evidence, how are we to get Concubine Zhao to confess?
And if such a scandal got out, our reputation would suffer.
Wed better give her rope to hang herself shes bound to give herself away one of these days.
Youre right, agreed the Lady Dowager.
A case of this kind cant be proved without a witness.
But Lord Buddha is all-seeing!
Havent Xifeng and Baoyu recovered?
Never mind, Xifeng, lets forget about the past.
You and your aunt must have dinner here before you go.
She told Yuanyang and Hupo to serve the meal.
Why trouble to order the meal yourself, Old Ancestress?
asked Xifeng with a twinkle.
Lady Wang also smiled.
And as some serving-women were waiting outside for instructions, Xifeng told a young maid to order dinner, informing her that they would both be dining there.
At this moment, however, Yuchuan arrived with a message for Lady Wang The master wants you to find something for him, madam, after the old ladys meal.
Youd better go now, urged the Lady Dowager.
It may be important.
Lady Wang assented.
Leaving Xifeng there, she went back to her room to chat with ha Zheng and find him the things he wanted.
Has Yingchun gone back?
he asked.
Hows she making out with the Sun family?
The poor child kept shedding tears and saying her husbands a tyrant.
She repeated what Yingchun had told her.
Jia Zheng sighed.
I knew it wasnt a good match, he recalled, but what could I do once my brother had settled on it?
The pity is, Yingchuns the one to suffer.
Shes newly married.
We can only hope that later theyll get on better.
This said, his wife suddenly tittered.
Whats there to laugh at?
Its Baoyu he came here specially first thing this morning and talked like a silly boy.
What did he say?
When she repeated their sons remarks Jia Zheng started laughing too.
Speaking of Baoyu, this reminds me, he said.
Its no good leaving that boy all the time in the Garden.
If a daughter turns out badly, shell go to another family anyway but having a bad son is serious.
The other day someone recommended a tutor to me.
His scholarship and moral character are excellent, and hes a southerner too.
But I feel that teachers from the south are too lenient.
Our young rascals here all have enough low cunning to get away with slacking.
Besides, theyre so unruly that a teacher who isnt strong on discipline and just humours them may let them waste their time.
Thats why the last generations never engaged a teacher from outside but just picked some elderly, fairly scholarly kinsman to run the family school.
Uncle Dairu now, though hes no great shakes as a scholar, knows how to keep these boys under control and isnt soft with them.
I dont think we should let Baoyu go on idling.
Wed better send him back to the family school.
I quite agree, approved his wife.
While you were away at your post he often fell ill, so he hasnt studied properly these last few years.
It will be good for him to go over his lessons again in the family school.
Jia Zheng nodded.
The rest of their talk can be passed over.
The next morning when Baoyu had finished his toilet, his pages announced that the master wanted him.
He hastily straightened his clothes and went over to Jia Zhengs study.
Having paid his respects he stood waiting for instructions.
What have you been studying recently?
asked his father.
Though youve done some calligraphy, that doesnt amount to much.
In these last few years, I can see, youve grown wilder than ever and Ive often heard that you refused to study on the pretext of poor health.
But arent you in good health now?
Ive also heard that you spend all your time in the Garden playing about with your girl cousins and even fooling about with the maids, forgetting your studies completely.
You may write a few lines of poetry but its not up to much, nothing to boast about.
After all, when you come to take the examinations, its essay-writing that counts but youve neglected that.
Heres what youre to do from now on.
Stop versifying and writing couplets, and concentrate on studying eight-section essays.
I give you one year.
If youve made no progress by the end of that time you can stop studying, and I shall disown you!
He called for Li Gui then and told him, Tomorrow morning Beiming is to accompany Baoyu to the family school, after first getting ready the books he needs and bringing them to show me.
To Baoyu he said sternly, You may go now.
Come back here tomorrow morning.
Baoyu had nothing to say to this and went back to Happy Red Court, where Xiren was anxiously waiting.
She was pleased by the news that he was to go back to school.
He, however, sent word at once to his grandmother in the hope that she would put a stop to this scheme and on receiving his message she sent for him.
Dont worry, she told him.
Go to school, or your father will be angry.
Anyone who makes it difficult for you will have me to reckon with.
As there was no more Baoyu could do, he went back.
Call me early tomorrow morning, he ordered his maids.
The masters taking me to the family school.
Xiren and the others assented, and she and Sheyue took turns keeping watch that night.
Xiren woke Baoyu early the next day and, having helped him dress, sent a young maid to tell Beiming to be ready waiting by the inner gate with his books and other school things.
But she had to urge Baoyu twice before he would leave.
On reaching Jia Zhengs study, he asked whether his father had arrived or not.
The page on duty told him, Just now one of his secretaries came to see him, but they said the master was still getting dressed and asked him to wait outside.
Feeling slightly relieved Baoyu hurried to Jia Zhengs apartment, arriving just as his father was sending for him.
Baoyu went in and listened to his instructions, after which they mounted the carriage and, with Beiming carrying the books, drove to the family school.
A servant had gone on ahead to announce their arrival.
Dairu stood up as Jia Zheng entered the classroom and greeted him.
Taking him by the hand, the teacher asked after his health and that of the old lady.
Then Baoyu went over to pay his respects, while his father waited for Dairu to take a seat before sitting down himself.
I have brought my son here myself today because I have a request to make, said Jia Zheng.
Hes no longer a child and its time for him to study for his career, so as to establish himself and win a name in future.
At home nowadays he just fools around with the children.
He may have a smattering of poetry, but the verses he writes are nonsensical and even if they were good, those effusions about the wind and rain, moonlight and dew have no bearing on his life-work.
He looks a handsome, intelligent lad, Dairu answered.
Why should he just play about instead of studying?
Poetry is all very well, but hell have plenty of time to take that up after passing the official examinations.
Quite so, agreed Jia Zheng.
All we want him to study now is the classics.
He must learn how to expound them and how to write essays.
If he is disobedient, I hope you will discipline him thoroughly, so that his life wont be wasted for lack of solid learning.
He stood up then, made a bow, and after a few more civilities took his leave.
Dairu saw him to the gate and asked him to convey his respects to the Lady Dowager.
Then Jia Zheng, assenting, mounted his carriage and left.
Re-entering the classroom, Dairu saw that Baoyu had a small hardwood desk in a corner by the southwest window.
On the right side of the desk he had piled two sets of old books and one slim volume of essays.
Beiming, on his instructions, was arranging his writing materials in the drawers.
The teacher said, Baoyu, I heard you were unwell some time ago.
Have you recovered completely?
Baoyu stood up to answer, Yes, sir.
Well, the time has come now for you to study hard.
Your father is very anxious that you should turn out well.
First revise, right from the beginning, all those books you studied before.
Spend every morning on that.
After lunch you can practise calligraphy.
In the afternoon, youll expound texts and read essays.
Baoyu assented respectfully, then sat down and looked around, perceiving that several old classmates such as Jin Rong were missing, while the few younger boys who had joined since he left appeared a coarse, common lot.
Recalling Qin Zhong, it struck him with dismay that he had no friend now with whom to exchange confidences.
But not venturing to speak, he moodily started reading.
The teacher told him, As this is your first day, Ill let you go home early.
Tomorrow I want to hear you expound a text.
Youre by no means stupid.
When youve analyzed a few passages for me tomorrow, I shall be able to see how much youve read recently and what standard youve reached.
This set Baoyus heart thumping To know how he made out, read the following chapter.
Chapter 82 An Old Teacher Expounds the Classics to Warn Against Mischief The Queen of Bamboos Falling Ill Has a Fearful Nightmare Baoyu, home from school, went to call on his grandmother.
Good!
Now the wild colts muzzled, she said with a smile.
Report to your father, then go and amuse yourself.
Baoyu, having assented, presented himself to Jia Zheng.
Back from school so early?
his father asked.
Did the teacher assign your lessons?
Yes, sir.
In the morning Im to revise the Four Books after lunch, practise writing in the afternoon, expound texts and read essays.
Jia Zheng nodded.
Go and keep your grandmother company for a while.
Instead of just fooling around you must learn some manners.
Go to bed early, and get up early to go to school every day.
Do you hear?
Yes, sir.
Yes, sir.
Baoyu, withdrawing, hurried to call on his mother and then to report to his grandmother, very soon leaving her again to rush to Bamboo Lodge.
Once inside the gate, he clapped and crowed with laughter.
Here I am back safe and sound!
Zijuan raised the portiere and he went in and sat down.
I thought I heard youd gone to school, said Daiyu, startled by his sudden return.
How come youre back so early?
Ah, its too bad!
he exclaimed.
When my father made me go to school today, I thought Id never set eyes on you all again.
But I survived it somehow, and now that were together again I feel as if Id just risen from the dead!
One day apart seems three autumns how true that old saying is.
Have you paid your duty calls?
Yes, all of them.
Called anywhere else?
No, I havent.
You should drop in to see your other cousins too.
I cant be bothered right now.
Id rather just sit here and chat with you for a while.
Early to bed and early to rise those are my fathers orders so Ill have to leave calling on them till tomorrow.
After sitting here a bit you must go back to rest.
Im not tired, only dying of boredom.
Sitting here with you I dont feel bored, yet now youre trying to shoo me away again!
With a faint smile Daiyu told Zijuan, Brew a cup of my Longjing tea for the Second Master.
Now that hes studying we must treat him with more respect.
Zijuan laughingly fetched the tea leaves and told one of the younger maids to make tea.
Dont mention studying!
Baoyu continued.
I cant stand such moral talk.
And those eight-section essays are still more ridiculous.
Using them to wangle a degree and make a living thats not so bad but how can you claim they voice the views of the sages?
The better ones are nothing but a hotch-potch of classical tags, while the most ludicrous ones are written by ignoramuses who drag in this, that and the other to make up a monstrous mishmash, yet boast of their erudition!
How can this be called expounding the views of the sages?
When father insists on my studying these essays, I cant oppose him but here are you talking about study too.
We girls dont have to write essays, Daiyu answered.
Still, when I was young and your kinsman Mr. Jia Yucun was my tutor, I read a few essays too.
Some of them showed good sense, some were quite subtle.
Though I didnt altogether understand them, I thought quite highly of them.
I dont see how you can condemn them so sweepingly.
Besides, If you want an official career, this is the scholarly way to go about it.
Baoyu was disgusted by talk of this kind.
Daiyu never used to be like this, he reflected.
Whats made her so worldly-wise all of a sudden?
But not wanting to argue with her, he simply snorted.
Just then they heard the voices of Qiuwen and Zijuan outside.
Sister Xiren said Id find him in the old ladys place, but instead hes here, said Qiuwen.
Weve just made tea, Zijuan told her.
Wait till hes drunk it before fetching him back.
Then the two of them came in.
Ill be coming presently, Baoyu promised Qiuwen.
Im sorry you had the trouble of looking for me.
When Qiuwen made no answer, Zijuan said, Drink up quickly and go.
Theyve been longing for you all day.
Shut up, you bitch!
cried Qiuwen.
Amid general laughter he rose to take his leave, and Daiyu saw him to the door while Zijuan waited at the foot of the steps, not reentering the house until he had gone.
Baoyu soon reached Happy Red Court.
As he went in, Xiren emerged from the inner room.
Is he back?
she called out.
Long ago, Qiuwen answered.
I found the Second Master with Miss Lin.
Did anything happen today?
Baoyu wanted to know.
Nothing much, said Xiren.
Only Her Ladyship sent Sister Yuanyang over just now with a message The master has set his mind on your studying hard, and if any maids dare fool about with you theyll be dealt with in the same way as Qingwen and Siqi.
After serving you all this time, I must say I find a warning like that uncalled for!
She was looking most put out.
Good sister, dont worry, he cried.
Ill have to study hard so that the mistress doesnt scold you again.
In fact, I must do some reading this evening, as tomorrow Ive got to expound texts to the teacher.
If I need anything, Sheyue and Qiuwen can attend to it.
Youd better go and rest.
If youre really going to study hard, well be glad to wait on you, was her reply.
Baoyu had a hasty supper, then made them light the lamp so that he could revise the Four Books.
But where to start?
When he leafed through one volume, the text seemed clear enough yet when he thought it over carefully, he was not too sure of the meaning.
He consulted the notes and then the commentaries, until the first watch had sounded.
I find poetry very easy, but with this Im getting nowhere, he reflected as he sat there, his mind in a whirl.
Go to bed now, urged Xiren You cant digest all that in just one night.
When Baoyu mumbled agreement she and Sheyue helped him to bed, then turned in themselves.
But Xiren, waking later, heard him still tossing about.
Are you still awake?
she asked.
Stop racking your brains!
You must get some rest if youre going to study well tomorrow.
I know, but I cant sleep.
Will you come and take off one of these quilts for me?
Better keep it on its not hot.
Well, I feel hectic.
He started kicking off one of his quilts.
Xiren promptly got up to stop him, and laying one hand on his forehead found it a little hot.
Dont move, She coaxed.
Youre rather feverish.
I know.
How come?
Dont worry.
Its because Im feeling frantic.
But dont raise an alarm, or my fathers hound to say Im shamming to get out of going to school or why else should I fall ill now of all times?
Ill be well enough to go back to school tomorrow then everything will he all right.
Taking pity on him she said, Ill come and sleep with you.
She massaged his back for a while, then they both dozed off, not waking until the sun was high in the sky.
Confound it, Ive overslept!
exclaimed Baoyu.
He hastily dressed, paid his respects to his elders and hurried to school.
Already the teacher was glowering.
No wonder your father is angry and calls you good-for-nothing you start slacking on your second day at school!
What time is it now?
Baoyu excused himself by explaining about his feverish night, then settled down again to study.
That afternoon Dairu set him a passage to analyse from the Analects, beginning with the line Respect the young.
He thanked his lucky stars that it was not from the Great Learning or the Doctrine of the Mean.
How am Ito analyse it?
he asked.
Carefully explain the passage and the gloss.
Baoyu read it aloud, then began, In this passage the sage is encouraging young people, exhorting them to work hard while there is time, so as not....
He broke off here and glanced up at the teacher, who smiled.
Just go ahead.
In expounding the classics, as the Book of Ceremony says, nothing is taboo.
Go on, So as not... what?
So as not to grow old without achieving anything.
First he says respect to encourage young people, then warns them not to grow into men whom nobody would respect.
He looked up expectantly.
Thats more or less right, said Dairu.
Now paraphrase the whole text.
The sage said When people are young, their intelligence and talents all seem quite formidable.
Who can be sure that in future they wont equal me today?
But if they let things slide until they are forty or fifty and still not known, however promising they may have been when young, by that time nobody will ever fear them.
The teacher smiled.
When you summarized the meaning just now, it was fairly clear, he said.
But your paraphrase was rather childish.
The words not known dont mean failure to attain officialdom.
Here knowing refers to understanding the truth, which doesnt depend on becoming an official.
Didnt some sages of old turn hermit and remain unknown?
They werent officials, were they?
But does that mean they were no good?
When he said that such cases were not to be feared, he meant that people knew the limitations of their understanding so this is in direct contrast to the previous idea it doesnt imply fearing their power.
You should examine such points carefully to grasp their subtlety.
Do you understand now?
Yes, sir.
Then heres another passage for you to expound.
He turned to a page and pointed out for Baoyu the line, I have never yet seen anyone who loved goodness as much as beauty.
Feeling rather sensitive on this score, Baoyu objected with a smile, Theres nothing worth expounding here.
Nonsense!
If this subject were set in the examinations, would you say it wasnt worth writing about?
Then Baoyu had to comply.
The sage noticed that men didnt love goodness but were enraptured with beauty when they saw it.
Actually, goodness is something inherent in human nature, yet people dont hanker after it.
As for beauty, though its also born not made, and everybody loves it, it is a human desire whereas goodness is a law of nature.
However, people dont love the law of nature as much as human desire.
Confucius both deplored this and hoped that men would change their ways.
He also noticed that though some men loved goodness, that love didnt go very deep.
Only when they came to love goodness as much as beauty could that be considered true love.
That is more or less correct, commented Dairu.
Now tell me this.
If you understand the sages teachings, why are you having trouble on both scores?
Though I dont stay in your family and your father has never spoken to me of this, I am well aware of your shortcomings.
Why dont you want to make progress?
Youre young now, just at the formidable age.
Whether you turn out well or not is entirely up to you.
Im going to give you a month to revise all the classics you studied before, then another month to read essays.
After that Ill set you subjects to write about.
And 1 shant tolerate any slacking!
As the proverb says, Men must choose between progress and comfort.
Keep what Ive told you in mind!
Baoyu promised to do so, and from that day on he had to apply himself harder to his studies.
After Baoyu went back to school, Happy Red Court was so quiet that Xiren had more time for embroidery.
As she stitched a pouch for betel-nuts one day, she reflected that his return to school had made life less complicated for his maids indeed, had he gone back earlier, Qingwen might never have come to such a sad end.
Grieving over her friends death, she sighed.
Then it occurred to her that although at present she could control Baoyu, as she was not destined to be his wife but only a concubine, if his wife proved a termagant she herself would share the same fate as Second Sister You and Xiangling.
Judging by the attitude of Their Ladyships as well as certain remarks let fall by Xifeng, it seemed as if their choice would be Daiyu who could be difficult.
Flushing at this thought, her heart beat so fast that she plied her needle at random.
Finally, laying down her embroidery, she went to Daiyus place to sound her out.
Daiyu, engrossed in reading when she arrived, got up to offer her a seat.
Are you much better these days, miss?
asked Xiren stepping forward.
How could I be?
A bit better, thats all.
What have you been doing at home?
Since Master Bao went back to school weve had very little to do.
So I dropped in here for a chat to see how you are.
Zijuan brought in tea at this point.
You mustnt trouble, sister!
Xiren rose to her feet, then added with a smile, I heard the other day from Qiuwen that youd been gossiping behind our backs!
Dont you believe her, Zijuan laughed.
All I said was that with Master Bao away at school, Miss Baochai gone and even Xiangling staying away, you must be feeling lonely.
Dont talk about Xiangling!
cried Xiren.
Poor thing!
She must be having a hard time of it with her mistress such a martinet, a worse terror even than her.
She held up two fingers to indicate the Second Mistress Xifeng.
She doesnt even care for appearances.
Shes no less hard-hearted, put in Daiyu.
Remember how Second Sister You died?
Of course, agreed Xiren.
were all women, only a bit different in status, so I cant think why anyone should be so cruel.
It spoils our reputation outside as well.
Daiyu guessed there was something behind this, as it was not Xirens habit to gossip in such a way behind peoples backs.
Well, its hard to say, she answered.
In every family, if the east wind doesnt prevail over the west wind, then the west wind is bound to prevail over the east wind.
But a concubine is diffident to start with.
How dare she take advantage of the wife?
Just then a serving-woman called from the courtyard, Is this Miss Lins house?
Is anybody in?
Xueyan went out and, thinking she recognized one of Aunt Xues servants, asked her business.
Our young lady sent me to bring something to Miss Lin.
Telling her to wait, Xueyan came back to report this, and Daiyu made her fetch the woman in.
The latter curtseyed to Daiyu, but instead of explaining her errand just stared at her.
Embarrassed by her scrutiny Daiyu asked, What did Miss Baochai tell you to bring me?
A jar of lichees preserved in honey.
Catching sight of Xiren then, the woman added, Isnt this Miss Hua from the Second Masters place?
How did you know, aunty?
asked Xiren.
We stay in mostly to keep an eye on the house, not going out much with our mistress or young ladies, so you other young ladies wouldnt be likely to know us.
But as you sometimes come to our place, we have a faint recollection of you all.
Having given the jar to Xueyan she turned back to look at Daiyu again, then observed with a smile to Xiren, No wonder our mistress says that Miss Lin here and your Master Bao would make a perfect pair.
Shes as pretty as a goddess, indeed she is!
To put a stop to such foolish talk, Xiren hastily interposed, You must be tired out, aunty.
Take a rest and have some tea.
Were all very busy over there preparing for Miss Baoqins wedding, the woman chuckled.
And there are two more jars of lichees which Miss Baochai wants sent to Master Bao.
She took her leave then and started to hobble away.
Daiyu, though annoyed by her impertinence, could hardly reprove a messenger sent by Baochai.
When the woman had stepped outside she called Thank Miss Baochai for me.
The old creature was still exclaiming, Such good looks too good for anyone but Baoyu!
Daiyu could only pretend not to have heard.
Xiren remarked with a smile, When people grow old they talk so foolishly, one doesnt know whether to be angry or laugh.
Xueyan showed Daiyu the jar of fruit.
I dont want it now.
Put it away, said Daiyu, then talked a little longer with Xiren until the latter left.
That evening when Daiyu went into the inner room to get ready for bed, the sight of the jar of lichees reminded her of the old womans maundering and she felt a pang.
In the quiet dusk, her heart filled with forebodings.
My healths poor and Ive reached the age to marry, she reflected.
Judging by Baoyus behaviour, he isnt interested in anyone else but my grandmother and aunt havent yet indicated their preference.
If only my parents were still alive, or had fixed this match in advance!
Then it occurred to her, Even if theyd lived they might have promised me to someone else, who couldnt possibly be up to Baoyu.
This way there may still be a chance.
Her heart was in a turmoil, distraught as a pulley swinging up and down.
After many a sigh and tear, she flung herself listlessly down on her bed fully dressed.
She was lying there in a daze when a young maid approached to report that Mr. Jia Yucun had asked to see her.
Its true that I studied under him, said Daiyu.
But Im not a boy why should he want to see me?
Besides, though hes my uncles friend, my uncles never mentioned him to me so it would be inappropriate to receive him.
She told the maid, Im not well enough to go out.
Give him my greetings and apologies.
I think hes here to offer congratulations, said the girl.
Some people have just come from Nanjing to fetch you.
That same moment in walked Xifeng, Lady Xing, Lady Wang and Baochai.
Weve come to congratulate you and to see you off!
they cried.
What do you mean?
asked Daiyu in alarm.
Dont play the innocent, teased Xifeng.
Surely you know that your father has been promoted to be the Grain Commissioner of Hubei and has taken another wife, a most suitable match.
They dont feel it would be right to leave you here, so they asked Mr. Jia as go-between to arrange for you to marry a relative of your stepmother, a widower.
Now theyve sent to fetch you back, and the wedding will probably take place as soon as you get home.
Its all been decided by your stepmother.
Were sending your Second Cousin Lian to escort you and look after you on the road.
At this, Daiyu broke out in a cold sweat.
She did seem to have a hazy recollection of her fathers appointment to an official post there.
This cant be true!
she protested frantically.
Cousin Xifeng must be joking.
She saw Lady Xing wink at Lady Wang, then say, She still doesnt believe it.
Lets go.
With tears in her eyes Daiyu begged, Dear aunts, please wait!
But in silence, smiling coldly, they all went away.
Daiyu had no means to express her desperation.
Sobbing bitterly, she seemed through her tears to see the Lady Dowager standing before her.
Thinking, If I beg my grandmother, shes the only one who may save me, she fell on her knees and clasped the old ladys waist.
Save me, madam!
she pleaded.
Id rather die than go south.
Besides, shes my stepmother, not my own mother.
Do let me stay with you, madam!
But with a look of indifference the old lady said, This has nothing to do with me.
What does that mean, madam?
she sobbed.
Marrying a widower is good youll get two sets of wedding presents.
If I can stay with you, madam, I promise not to put you to extra expense.
I just implore you to save me!
Its no use.
All girls must get married sooner or later.
You ought to know that, child.
You cant stay here for ever.
Id rather be a bondmaid here, earning my keep.
Please, please speak up for me, madam!
Still the old lady said nothing.
Daiyu caught hold of her again and cried, Madam, you were always so kind, so fond of me, how can you leave me in the lurch like this?
Even if Im only your grand-daughter, removed by one generation, my mother was your own daughter wont you protect me for her sake at least?
She gave way to a storm of weeping in the Lady Dowagers lap.
Yuanyang, take her out to calm down, ordered the old lady.
Shes wearing me out, making such a scene.
Daiyu knew then that appealing for help was useless.
Determining to kill herself instead, she stood up and started out.
How bitterly she grieved that she had no mother!
For though her grandmother, aunts and cousins had always seemed so good to her, this now appeared to be nothing but a pretence.
How is it I havent seen Baoyu?
she wondered.
He might be able to help.
And just then Baoyu suddenly appeared.
Congratulations, cousin!
he said with a smile.
This made Daiyu even more frantic.
Forgetting all reserve she seized him by the arm.
Fine!
she cried.
Now I know how heartless you are, Baoyu!
In what way am I heartless?
Now that youre engaged, we must each go our own way.
Feeling yet more angry and helpless, she gripped his arm.
Good cousin, to whom do you want me to go?
she sobbed.
If you dont want to leave, you can stay here.
You were originally promised to me thats why you came to live here in the first place.
And just think how close weve been.
Then it seemed to Daiyu that she had indeed been engaged to Baoyu.
Her sorrow turned to joy.
My minds made up even if I die!
she cried.
Tell me honestly, do you want me to leave or to stay?
I want you to stay.
If you doubt me, Ill show you my heart!
He drew a small knife and plunged it into his chest so that blood spurted out.
In terror, she thrust one hand over his heart.
How can you do that!?
Youd better kill me first!
Dont be afraid, he said.
Ill show you my heart.
He groped around with his hand in the gaping wound while Daiyu trembled and wept, fearful lest others see them.
Racked by sobs she held him close.
Then Baoyu exclaimed, Im done for!
Now Ive lost my heart I must die!
He turned up his eyes and slumped with a thud to the ground.
As Daiyu started screaming she heard Zijuan calling her.
Miss!
Miss!
Have you had a nightmare?
Wake up!
Undress and go to bed properly.
Daiyu turned over and found it was all a dream.
She was still sobbing, her heart beating wildly.
Her pillow was drenched and she felt icy cold.
She thought, My parents both died long ago and never engaged me to Baoyu, so how could such ideas occur to me?
Recalling the dream and her helplessness, she wondered what would become of her if Baoyu were really to die.
11cr mind in a turmoil of anguish, she burst out weeping again until soon she was perspiring.
Struggling up to take off her robe, she told Zijuan to tuck in her quilt and lay down again, but toss and turn as she might she could not sleep.
There was a rustling outside like wind or rain, and presently some way off she heard heavy breathing it was Zijnan, fast asleep and beginning to snore.
She sat up again with an effort, wrapping the bedding around her but a cold draught through the window cracks made her shiver, so once more she lay down.
As she was dozing off, she heard sparrows twittering on the bamboo and although the blinds were drawn.
light gradually filtered through the window-paper.
By no Daiyu was wide-awake.
She started coughing, waking up Zijuan.
Still not asleep, miss?
she asked.
And coughing again!
You must have caught cold.
Look, the windows light and it will soon be dawn.
Yon must rest properly, not let your thoughts wander.
1 want to sleep, but 1 cant.
You can go back to sleep Talking set her coughing again.
But Zijuan was too upset by Daiyus fit of coughing to sleep any longer.
She hastily got up to fetch the spittoon.
By now it was light.
Are you getting up?
Daiyu asked.
Its already bright.
How can I go on sleeping?
In that case, you may as well change the spittoon.
Zijuan, assenting, hurried out to fetch a clean spittoon, placing the used one on the table in the outer room.
Having closed the door behind her, she let down the soft flowered portiere before going to wake Xueyan.
When she came back to empty the spittoon, she was shocked to find the sputum in it flecked with blood.
Oh!
she exclaimed.
Heaven help us!
Whats the matter?
called Daiyu from the inner room.
Aware of her gaffe Zijuan hedged, Its the spittoon it nearly slipped from my hand.
It wasnt because theres something in the sputum?
Oh no!
But her voice was quavering with distress and tears gushed from her eyes.
Daiyus suspicions had been aroused by the sweet-salty taste in her throat, and now they were confirmed by Zijuans exclamation of dismay as well as the catch in her voice.
Come in!
she called.
Ifs cold out there.
Yes, miss.
Zijuan sounded even more woeful, and the sadness in her voice set Daiyu shivering.
She came in, wiping her eyes with a handkerchief.
Why are you crying for no reason so early in the morning?
Daiyu asked.
Whos crying?
She forced a smile.
When I got up my eyes felt itchy.
You must have slept even less than usual last night, miss.
I heard you coughing half the time.
Thats right.
The harder I tried to sleep, the more wide-awake I felt.
Youre so delicate, miss, I dont think you should worry so much.
Health is what counts.
As the saying goes, As long as the mountains there we shant lack fuel.
Besides, everyone here from Their Ladyships down is ever so fond of you.
Unfortunately, this last remark reminded Daiyu of her dream.
Her heart missed a beat, all turned dark before her eyes, and the colour drained from her face.
Zijuan hastily held up the spittoon for her while Xueyan patted her back, and after retching she spat out some dark, bloody mucus.
Her two maids turned pale with fright.
As they stood there gaping, she fell back in a faint.
In dismay, Zijuan signalled to Xueyan to go for help.
As soon as Xueyan went out she saw Cuilu and Cuimo approaching.
Why hasnt Miss Lin come out yet?
asked?
Cuilu with a smile.
Our young lady and Miss Tanchun are in Miss Xichuns place, discussing that painting shes done of the Garden.
Xueyan waved her hands to stop them.
What does this mean?
they asked in astonishment.
When she explained what had happened they thrust out their tongues in dismay.
This is no joking matter.
You must report it at once to the old lady.
Heavens!
How can you be so stupid?
I was on my way there when you turned up, she countered.
Just then Zijuan called from the house, whos that out there Miss Lin would like to know.
They hurried in, and the two newcomers saw Daiyu lying in bed covered with a quilt.
Who told you to make such a fuss over nothing?
she asked them.
Cuimo said, Our young lady and Miss Xiangyun are in Miss Xichuns place discussing that painting shes made of the Garden.
They told us to invite you over, miss.
We didnt realize you were unwell.
Its nothing serious I just feel a bit limp.
I shall get up after Ive rested.
Go back and tell Miss Tanchun and Miss Xiangyun Id like them to drop in if theyve time after lunch.
Has Master Bao gone there too?
No.
Cuimo added, Master Baos going to school these days.
The master checks up on his lessons every day, so he cant run around the way he used to.
When Daiyu made no response, after waiting a little the two maids slipped away.
Let us turn now to Tanchun and Xiangyun in Xichuns room.
Commenting on her painting of Grand View Garden, they found it rather overcrowded in parts and rather empty in others.
When it came to discussing a suitable inscription, they sent to invite Daiyu over to consult her.
And now they saw Cuilu and Cuimo return looking thoroughly disconcerted.
Why hasnt Miss Lin come?
asked Xiangyun.
Last night her illness flared up again, and she coughed all night, Cuilu answered.
We heard from Xueyan that she spat out a whole lot of blood.
Is that true?
exclaimed Tanchun in consternation.
Of course its true, Cuilu insisted.
Just now when we went in to see her, Cuimo added, she looked in a very bad way, hardly able to talk.
If shes in a bad way, of course she cant talk, said Xiangyun.
How can you be so dense?
cried Tanchun.
If she cant speak, that means...
Her voice trailed away.
Xichun said, Cousin Lin is very intelligent but I think she takes things too much to heart shes so serious about even the least little thing.
How can one take everything so seriously?
Well, if thats the case, said Tanchun, we should all go and see her.
If shes so very ill, we must get our sister-in-law to report in to the old lady and send for a doctor, so that well know how to cope.
Thats right, agreed Xiangyun.
-370 The two of you go on ahead, said Xichun.
Ill go over later on.
Then Tanchun and Xiangyun, helped along by some young maids, went to Bamboo Lodge.
Their arrival upset Daiyu, reminding her of her dream.
What can I expect of them, when even my grandmother cold-shouldered me like that?
she wondered.
Besides, they wouldnt have come unless Id invited them.
But instead of showing what was in her mind, she made Zijuan help her to sit up and offered them seats.
Tanchun and Xiangyun sat down, one on either side of her on the edge of the bed, distressed to see her so ill. What brought on this relapse, cousin?
Tanchun asked.
Its nothing serious.
I just feel very limp.
Zijuan standing behind her pointed surreptitiously at the spittoon.
And Xiangyun, being young and straightforward, picked it up to have a look.
What she saw horrified her.
Did you bring this up, cousin?
she exclaimed.
Heaven help us!
Daiyu had been too dazed before to look carefully at her sputum.
At Xiangyuns ejaculation she turned to look, her heart already sinking.
To cover up Xiangyuns tactlessness, Tanchun hastily put in, This is nothing out of the usual its just that a hot humour in the lungs made her bring up a drop or two.
But Xiangyun is so silly, the least little thing always makes her fly off the handle.
Xiangyun, regretting her blunder, blushed at this.
Seeing how listless and tired Daiyu seemed, Tanchun got up and said, You must rest well, cousin.
Well call again later on.
Thank you both for your concern.
Tanchun urged Zijuan, Look after your young lady well !
As Zijuan assented Tanchun turned to leave but just then somebody outside started shouting.
To know who it was, read on.
Chapter 83 The Imperial Consort Falls 111 and Her Relatives Call at the Palace Jingui Makes a Scene and Baochai Has to Swallow Her Anger Tanchun and Xiangyun, on the point of leaving, heard an old woman shouting outside, You good-for-nothing little bitch!
Who are you to come and fool around in our Garden?
At this Daiyu pointed outside.
Showing the whites of her eyes she exclaimed, I shall have to leave here!
For ever since moving into Grand View Garden, though able to rely on her grandmothers partiality Daiyu had always watched her step with other people.
When she heard this abuse shouted outside her window, she was sure it must be aimed at nobody else but her.
Reflecting that she was a finely brought up young lady but now had lost her parents, she wondered who had sent this old creature to insult her.
This was too much to bear!
With a heart-rending cry she fainted away.
Whats come over you, miss?
wailed Zijuan.
Wake up, quick!
Tanchun called her too, and after a while Daiyu regained consciousness.
Still she could not speak, just kept pointing out of the window.
Tanchun caught her meaning and opening the door went out.
She saw an old woman with a stick chasing after a grubby little girl.
Im here to look after the flowers and fruit trees, the old crone was shouting.
Why should you come too?
Wait till we get home and Ill give you a good thrashing.
The child looked round, sucking one finger, and laughed at her.
Tanchun scolded, You people are getting too out of hand!
Is this the place for you to bawl abuse?
When the old woman saw who it was she said sheepishly, Its my grand-daughter who followed me here.
I was afraid shed make a noise, so I told her to go back.
I wouldnt dare bawl her out here.
Thats enough.
Hurry up and go, the two of you.
Miss Lins not feeling well.
Hurry!
Yes, miss.
The old woman made off, the small girl running after her.
Going back inside Tanchun found Xiangyun in tears, holding Daiyus hand.
Zijuan supported the invalid with one arm and massaged her chest till, slowly, she opened her eyes.
What did you think that old woman meant?
Tanchun asked her with a smile.
Daiyu just shook her head.
She was scolding her grand-daughter.
I heard her just now.
Such creatures talk nothing but nonsense.
They dont understand that some things arent allowed.
Cousin... sighed Daiyu, then broke off, clasping her hand.
Dont fret yourself.
Its only right that we should come to see you as you havent anyone to look after you.
If youll just rest, take your medicine and look on the bright side of things, youll gradually get well enough for us all to start the poetry club again.
Wouldnt that be nice?
Thats right, chimed in Xiangyun.
That would be fun.
You want me to cheer up, sobbed Daiyu.
But how can I?
I shant live to see that day.
Thats taking too gloomy a view!
protested Tanchun.
Who doesnt fall ill or have trouble from time to time?
How can you think in that way?
Now just have a good rest while we go to see the old lady.
Well look in again by and by.
If theres anything you want, tell Zijuan to let me know.
Dear Cousin!
cried Daiyu, in tears.
When you see the old lady, please give her my respects and tell her Im a bit poorly, but its nothing serious shes not to worry.
I know.
You just have a good rest.
When Tanchun had gone off with Xiangyun, Zijuan helped her young mistress to lie down again and stayed by her side while Xueyan saw to other things.
Her heart ached but she dared not weep.
Daiyu lay there awhile with closed eyes but could not sleep.
Normally she found the Garden very quiet, but now lying in bed she was conscious of the soughing of the wind, the chin of insects, the chirping of birds, and the sound of passing footsteps.
She seemed to hear children, too, crying in the distance.
Disturbed by these noises, she told Zijuan to let down her bed-curtains.
Presently Xueyan brought in a bowl of birds-nest soup which she passed to Zijuan.
Will you have some soup, miss?
asked Zijuan outside the curtain.
When Daiyu assented faintly she gave the bowl back to Xueyan to hold while she helped the patient sit up.
Having tested the temperature of the soup herself, still supporting Daiyu she raised the bowl to her mouth.
Daiyu, her eyes half closed, took two or three sips, then shook her head and would not drink any more.
Zijuan handed the bowl back to Xueyan and gently laid her young mistress down once more.
After a little rest, feeling slightly better, Daiyu heard a low voice outside asking Is Sister Zijuan at home?
Xueyan hurried out and saw it was Xiren.
Come in, sister, she said softly.
How is your young lady?
As they started in Xueyan described what had happened just now and the night before.
No wonder Cuilu just came to our place and said Miss Lin was ill!
exclaimed Xiren in dismay.
Master Bao was so alarmed, he told me to come and see how she is.
While they were whispering, Zijuan lifted the portiere of the inner room and beckoned Xiren over.
Is she asleep?
asked Xiren tiptoeing towards her.
Zijuan nodded.
Have you only just heard about it?
Xiren inclined her head with a worried look.
How is this going to end?
I was nearly scared to death too last night by the other!
Zijuan asked what had happened.
He was all right when he went to bed in the evening, Xiren told her.
But in the middle of the night he suddenly yelled that he had a pain in his heart, and raved that someone seemed to have cut it out!
He kept up this rumpus quite a time, not quieting down till after the last watch had sounded.
Wouldnt you call that frightening?
Today he couldnt go to school, and were sending for a doctor to prescribe medicine.
Just then they heard Daiyu coughing behind her bed-curtains, and Zijuan hurriedly took her the spittoon.
Daiyu languidly opened her eyes.
Whom were you talking to?
Sister Xiren has come to see you, miss.
By now Xiren had come over to her bed.
Daiyu made Zijuan help her sit up, then indicating the edge of the bed invited Xiren to be seated.
Perching sideways, Xiren urged her with a smile Youd better lie down, miss.
Im all right.
Dont be such alarmists.
What was that you were saying just now about someone having a pain in the heart in the middle of the night?
Master Bao had a nightmare, nothing of consequence.
Daiyu was touched and at the same time distressed, knowing that Xiren had said this for fear she might be anxious.
Did you hear him talk in his sleep?
He didnt say anything.
Daiyu nodded.
After a while she sighed.
Dont tell Master Bao that Im ill.
It would make him waste time, and his father would be angry.
Yes, miss.
Youd better rest now.
Daiyu nodded and asked Zijuan to lower her to her pillow.
Xiren stayed to say a few more encouraging words, then took her leave and went back to Happy Red Court where she simply told Baoyu, to his great relief, that Daiyu was a little unwell but not in any danger.
Tanchun and Xiangyun, leaving Bamboo Lodge, had set off to call on the Lady Dowager.
On the way Tanchun warned her cousin When you see the old lady, mind you dont talk in that wild way you did just now!
Xiangyun lowered her head.
I know.
Its because just now I was frightened out of my wits!
When they arrived, Tanchuns report that Daiyu was unwell worried the old lady.
That precious pair are always falling ill, she said.
Now that Daiyus growing up she should pay more attention to her health.
I think the child broods too much.
When no one ventured to make any comment she ordered Yuanyang, Go and tell them After the doctors seen Baoyu tomorrow he must go to Miss Lins place too.
Yuanyang assented and withdrew to pass on these instructions to serving-women, who went off to relay the message.
Tanchun and Xiangyun took dinner with the old lady before going back to the Garden, where we will leave them.
The next day the doctor came.
He diagnosed Baoyus upset as a slight one, a mild case of indigestion and a chill which sweating would put right.
Lady Wang and Xifeng sent servants with his prescription to report this to the old lady, at the same time sending word to Bamboo Lodge that the doctor was on his way.
Zijuan promptly tucked Daiyus quilt round her and put down the bed-curtains, while Xueyan hastily tidied up the room.
Soon Jia Lian arrived with the doctor.
This gentleman often comes to our house, he said, so theres no need for all the maids to hide.
An old nurse raised the portiere, the doctor was invited in and they took seats.
Then Jia Lian suggested that Zijuan should first describe her young ladys symptoms.
Wait a bit, said Doctor Wang.
Suppose I first feel the pulse to make my own diagnosis.
If these girls think it wrong or theres something Ive omitted, then they can let me know.
Zijuan drew one of Daiyus hands out from the curtain, rested it on a cushion, and gently pulled her sleeve and bracelet up out of the way.
Doctor Wang felt the pulse for some time, then that of the other wrist, after which he and Jia Lian withdrew to take seats in the outer room.
All six pulses are tense, he announced, due to bottled up emotion.
At this point Zijuan came out too and stood in the doorway, and Doctor Wang, addressing her, continued I would expect this illness to give rise to constant dizzy spells, loss of appetite as well as frequent dreams and no doubt she wakes several times in the night.
She must be hypersensitive, taking offence at remarks which dont even concern her.
People not knowing the truth may think her cross-grained, when in fact its all due to this illness which has upset her liver and weakened her heart.
Am I right?
Zijuan nodded and said to Jia Lian, The gentleman is absolutely right.
So thats how it is, said the doctor.
He got up and went with Jia Lian to the study to write out a prescription.
The pages there had already prepared a sheet of pink stationery.
After Doctor Wang had sipped some tea he took a brush and wrote The six pulses are tense and slow owing to pent-up grief.
The feebleness of the left cun pulse shows debility of the heart.
The strength of the guan pulse shows an over-heated liver.
When the liver humour cannot disperse, it is bound to invade the spleen, causing loss of appetite and inevitably affecting the lungs too.
The humours, failing to turn into vital force, will congeal as phlegm and agitate the blood, so that naturally there will be coughing.
The treatment should calm the liver, protect the lungs and strengthen the heart and the spleen.
But invigorants must not be rashly administered.
I suggest starting off with thorowax boiled with turtleblood, followed with medicine to soothe and strengthen the lungs.
This is my humble proposal for your wise consideration.
He then listed seven drugs and an adjuvant.
Jia Lian reading this asked, When the blood is agitated, is it safe to use thorowax?
Doctor Wang smiled.
I see you know, sir, that thorowax is a stimulant, not to be used in cases of vomiting blood or nose-bleed but actually, boiled with turtle-blood, this is the only drug which will stimulate the digestive system and release the humour from the gall.
Instead of agitating the blood it can strengthen the liver and keep down hot humours.
This is why the Yellow Emperors Manual of Medicine says, Use stimulants for a haemorrhage, occludents for a blockage.
This method is similar to using Zhou Bos strength to stabilize the Lius dynasty 2 applying turtle-blood to mitigate the stimulating function of the thorowax.
Jia Lian nodded.
So thats how it is.
Very well, then.
Let her take two doses first, after which we can add or cancel certain ingredients or perhaps try a different prescription.
I still have a little business to attend to and mustnt stay longer, sir.
I shall come to pay my respects some other day.
As Jia Lian saw him out he asked, What about Cousin Baos prescription?
Theres nothing much wrong with Master Bao.
I think another dose should set him right.
The doctor mounted his carriage then and left.
Jia Lian, having ordered servants to get the medicine, had just gone back to tell Xifeng about Daiyus illness and the doctors prescription, when Zhou Ruis wife arrived to report on some matters of no great consequence.
Tell the mistress that, he cut in halfway.
Im busy.
With that he left.
Just now I went to Miss Lins place, said Zhou Ruis wife after transacting her business.
She seems in a very bad way!
Her face has no colour at all shes nothing but skin and bones.
And when I asked how she felt, not a word did she say simply cried.
Later Zijuan told me, Our young ladys ill, yet when she needs something she wont ask for it.
So I mean to ask Madam Lian to advance us a couple of months allowance.
Although we get issued medicine, we need some cash for incidental expenses.
I promised to pass on this request to you.
Xifeng lowered her head in thought.
Ill tell you what, she said presently.
Ill give her a few taels to use, and you neednt let Miss Lin know.
I cant very well advance the monthly allowance.
If once the precedent was set and everyone else followed suit, what should we do?
Remember how Concubine Zhao quarrelled with Miss Tanchun all because of the monthly allowance?
Besides, as you know, our outlay exceeds our income these days and weve never got around this.
Those not in the know think me a bad manager.
Some gossips even accuse me of spiriting stuff away to my own family.
But you as a stewardess, Mrs. Zhou, must naturally know better.
The injustice of it!
exclaimed Mrs. Zhou.
A big household like this can only be run by someone with your forethought, madam.
No ordinary woman could manage it no, not even a man with three heads and six arms!
Yet people still talk such rubbish.
She suddenly laughed.
You havent heard the even more stupid things they say outside, madam.
The other day when Zhou Rui came home, he told me outsiders imagine were made of money.
They talk of the Jia family having so many storerooms for gold, so many for silver, and of using nothing but golden utensils studded with gems!
Some say, When their daughter became an Imperial Consort, naturally the Emperor would give half his things to her family.
That time Her Highness paid a visit home, we saw with our own eyes the cartloads of gold and silver that she brought, which is why the house is fitted out like the crystal palace of the Dragon King.
And that day they went to give offerings in the temple, they spent tens of thousands of taels, but to them thats just one hair from the hide of an ox.
Other people say, The lions outside their gate must be made of jade.
In their Garden they had two gold unicorns, but one got stolen so now theres only one left.
Not to say the mistresses of the house, even the maids have nothing to do except drink, play chess, strum the lyre or paint they have attendants to wait on them anyway.
The silks and gauzes they wear, all their food and ornaments too, are things that common folk never even heard of.
As for the young masters and mistresses, of course it goes without saying that if they want the moon from the sky someone will pluck it down for them to play with!
Then, madam, theres a song -755 The House of Ning, the House of Rong, Treat silver and gold as clay No end to their victuals and clothing, but at last She broke off here because the final line ran -755 But at last all will vanish away.
Mrs. Zhou had been rattling on, only pulling up short when she suddenly remembered how ominous this sounded.
And Xifeng, guessing this, did not press her to finish.
Well, never mind that, she said.
But where did they get that story about the gold unicorn?
That was the small gold unicorn presented to Master Bao by the old Taoist priest of that temple.
Mrs. Zhou smiled.
Later it was lost for a few days, but Miss Shi found it and returned it to him.
Then they made up this story outside.
Ridiculous, isnt it, madam?
Not ridiculous, actually, but rather alarming!
Things are getting harder for us every day, and yet we still keep up such an outward show.
Bad for a man to be famed, bad for a pig to grow fat, the proverb says.
Especially as with us this is empty fame.
Goodness knows what the end will be.
You have reason to worry, madam.
Still, for years now that has been the talk of the town in teashops, taverns and every least little alley.
And how can you stop people talking?
Xifeng nodded, then asked Pinger to weigh out a few ounces of silver for Mrs. Zhou.
Take this to Zijuan, she instructed her.
Just tell her Im giving her this for sundries, and she mustnt hesitate to ask for things that are their due, but lets have no more talk of advancing the monthly allowance.
Shes quite clever enough to catch on.
When Ive time, I shall call to see Miss Lin.
Mrs. Zhou, assenting, took the silver and left.
No more of this.
Now as Jia Lian was on his way out a page had approached and reported, The Elder Master wants you, sir.
He hurried over and Jia She informed him, Weve just had word that an Imperial Physician and two assistants were summoned to the Palace to attend a patient it can hardly be one of the maids-of-honour or attendants.
Has there been any news from the Imperial Consorts palace these last few days?
None, sir.
Go and ask the Second Master and your brother Jia Zhen, or send to find out from the Academy of Imperial Physicians.
Accordingly, Jia Lian dispatched a man to the Academy of Imperial Physicians, then went over to see Jia Zheng.
Where did you hear that?
asked Jia Zheng when he had explained his errand.
From the Elder Master just now.
You and your brother Zhen had better go to the Palace to find out.
Ive already sent to the Academy of Imperial Physicians.
Jia Lian then withdrew to find Jia Zhen and, meeting him, told him about this.
I heard the same news, said Jia Zhen.
I was on my way to tell Their Lordships.
Both went together to Jia Zheng, who said, If its our Imperial Consort, were bound to be sent some word.
Jia She joined them then and they waited till the afternoon, but the messengers sent out had still not returned.
Then in came a gatekeeper.
Two Imperial eunuchs have come, asking to see Your Lordships, he announced.
Invite them in, said Jia She.
Servants led in the eunuchs, who were met by ha She and Jia Zheng at the inner gate.
Their Lordships first inquired after the health of Her Highness, then ushered the eunuchs into the hail and invited them to sit down.
The other day the Imperial Consort from your house became indisposed, the eunuchs informed them.
Yesterday we received the order to summon four of her female relatives to the Palace to see her.
Each may bring one maid, no more.
As for male relatives, they may send in their cards at the gate to pay their respects and await further orders there but they must not enter the Palace.
You are to go between eight and ten tomorrow morning and leave between four and six in the afternoon.
Jia Zheng and Jia She had risen respectfully to hear these injunctions.
When they had resumed their seats tea was offered to the eunuchs, who then took their leave.
Their Lordships escorted them out of the main gate, returning to report this to the Lady Dowager.
Four female relatives, she said.
Naturally theres myself and your wives, but whos to be the fourth?
No one venturing to answer her, she thought it over.
It will have to be Xifeng, she concluded.
She always knows how to cope.
You menfolk go and discuss which of you will go.
Their Lordships assented and withdrew.
They decided that apart from Jia Lian and Jia Rong, who would be left in charge at home, all the other men of the family should go.
They ordered four green sedan-chairs and some dozen carriages to be made ready by dawn, and servants went to carry out these instructions.
Then Jia She and Jia Zheng went in again to report You are to enter the Palace between eight and ten in the morning and leave between four and six in the afternoon so youd better retire early, madam, in order to make an early start tomorrow.
I know, she said.
You may go.
After their withdrawal Lady Xing, Lady Wang and Xifeng stayed behind a little longer to talk of Yuanchuns illness and other things, then went back to their own quarters.
The next day at dawn, the maids in the different houses lit the lamps, their mistresses washed and dressed, and the masters made ready too.
It was about six when Lin Zhixiao and Lai Da came to the inner gate to announce The sedan-chairs and carriages are ready outside the gate.
Presently Jia She and Lady Xing came over.
When all had breakfasted Xifeng escorted the old lady out first, followed by the other ladies, each supported by one maid, advancing slowly.
Li Gui and another steward were ordered to ride ahead, followed by their wives, to the outer gate of the Palace.
Their Lordships and the gentlemen of lower generations rode in carriages or on horseback, with a great retinue of servants, leaving Jia Lian and Jia Rong at home in charge.
The Jia familys carriages, sedan-chairs and horses had halted for some time outside the gate of the outer west wall when at last two eunuchs emerged.
The Jia ladies come to see their noble relative can enter the Palace now, they announced.
The gentlemen are to pay their respects outside the inner gate, but may not go in.
Guards at the gate cried, Make haste!
The four sedan-chairs were borne in behind some young eunuchs, while the gentlemen followed on foot.
All the menservants had been ordered to wait outside.
When they approached the inner gate, some old eunuchs sitting there rose to their feet.
No further, gentlemen!
they ordered.
Then Jia She, Jia Zheng and the rest ranged themselves at attention in order of seniority while the ladies alighted from their chairs which had also stopped at the gate and, each supported by her maid, were led in by the young eunuchs.
Soon they came to the bed-chamber of Imperial Consort Yuanchun, its walls dazzling with gleaming glazed tiles.
Two young maids-of-honour told them You need only pay your respects.
Other formalities can be dispensed with.
The Lady Dowagers party, having thanked the Imperial Consort, went over to the bed and paid their respects.
The Imperial Consort told them to sit down, which they did with murmured thanks.
How has your health been recently?
she asked her grandmother.
The old lady stood up, leaning on her maids arm.
By grace of Your Highness, my health is still good.
Lady Xing and Lady Wang were questioned next, and they rose to answer too.
Then Xifeng was asked, How are you managing at home?
Rising she replied, We are managing all right.
Its not been easy for you all these years working so hard.
Before Xifeng could answer, a maid-of-honour brought in a list for Her Highness to inspect.
When she saw on it the names of Jia She, Jia Zheng and others, her heart ached and she could not hold back her tears.
The maid passed her a handkerchief.
Im a little better today, she said wiping her eyes.
Tell them to rest outside.
Her relatives rose to their feet again to give thanks for her graciousness.
With tears in her eyes she told them, We are less fortunate than humble folk whose daughters can keep close to their fathers and brothers.
Suppressing their own grief they answered, Dont grieve, Your Highness.
Our family has benefited so much from your grace!
How is Baoyu these days?
Working much harder at his books, said the old lady.
Because his father makes strict demands on him, he can write essays now.
Thats good.
She ordered a feast to be served to them outside.
Then two maids-of-honour and four young eunuchs led them to another palace where the feast was already laid, and they sat down in due order.
But we need not dwell on this.
After dining, the old lady led the three others back to thank the Imperial Consort for the feast, and they kept her company until nearly five when, not daring to stay any longer, they took their leave.
The Imperial Consort ordered her maids-of-honour to show them to the inner gate, outside which the same four young eunuchs escorted them.
When the ladies had seated themselves once more in their chairs, Jia She and the other gentlemen followed them home, where similar arrangements were made for visiting the Palace on the two following days.
No more of this.
Let us turn back now to Jingui in the Xue family.
After driving Xue Pan away she had no one to squabble with as Qiuling had gone to stay with Baochai, leaving only Baochan with her.
And Baochan since becoming Xue Pans concubine showed more spirit than before, so that Jingui found in her an even worse rival and repented too late of having made her a secondary wife.
One day after drinking a few cups alone Jingui, lying on the kang, decided to work off her spleen on Baochan.
Where did the master go when he left home the other day?
she asked.
You must of course know.
How should I?
answered Baochan.
If he wouldnt tell even you, madam, who can possibly know what hes up to?
Jingui laughed scornfully.
Are you still calling me madam?
You two have it all your own way.
She s untouchable because she has a protectress, and I dare not catch the lice on a tigers head, but you are still my maid.
Yet when I ask you a question you scowl at me and snap back!
If youre so powerful, why not strangle me?
Then either you or Qiuling could be the mistress wouldnt you like that better?
Its too bad that Im not dead yet, blocking your path!
Unable to stomach this, Baochan glared at her.
Save that talk for someone else, madam!
she retorted.
I havent said anything wrong.
Why should you work off your anger on someone weaker because you darent challenge her?
If someone really offends you, you pretend not to hear so as to keep out of harms way.
She burst out crying.
More enraged than ever, Jingui scrambled down from the kang to beat her.
But Baochan had also acquired the Xia family ways, and she would not give an inch.
While Jingui smashed cups and saucers and overturned tables and chairs, Baochan paid no attention, just bewailing her unjust fate at the top of her voice.
Aunt Xue in Baochais room heard this commotion.
Xiangling, she said, go over and see whats happening.
Tell them to calm down.
That wont do, mother.
Dont tell her to go, said Baochai.
How could she stop them?
It would simply pour oil on the flames.
In that case, Ill go myself.
I dont think you need go either.
Let them make a scene.
Theres nothing we can do about it.
But this is outrageous!
With that Aunt Xue took a maid and headed for Jinguis room.
Baochai, impelled to go with her, told Xiangling to stay behind.
As mother and daughter reached Jinguis door they heard unabated shouting and sobbing inside.
What are you doing?
cried Aunt Xue.
Turning the house upside-down again!
What way is this to behave?
The walls are so thin, arent you afraid our relatives may hear and laugh at you?
Jingui called back from inside, Of course I dont want people to laugh at us.
But things here are topsy-turvy, with no distinction between mistress and maid, between wife and concubine this whole households a mix-up!
Thats not how we behave in our Xia family.
I really cant stand your household any longer!
Sister-in-law, put in Baochai, mother came because youre making too much noise.
Even if she spoke a little hastily, lumping mistress and maid together, never mind.
Lets first clear things up, so that we can live in peace and mother can stop worrying about us.
Thats right, said Aunt Xue.
Lets first clear everything up.
Youll have plenty of time to grouse about me later.
Jingui sneered, Dear sister, good sister!
What a paragon you are!
Youre bound to marry into a good family and get yourself a good husband.
You certainly wont be a grass-widow like me, lone and loin, trampled on and bullied by everyone.
Im a foolish creature but all I beg of you, sister, is not to twist my words like that so as to run me down!
My parents never taught me properly.
Besides, what goes on here between wife and husband, wife and concubine, is hardly the business of an unmarried girl!
Baochai was mortified and enraged by such talk, but what rankled most was the affront to her mother.
Suppressing her anger she said, Watch your tongue, sister-in-law.
Whos run you down?
Whos bullied you?
Why, not to say you, not even Qiuling has ever had a single harsh word from me.
This only made Jingui pound the edge of the kang.
How can I compare with Qiuling?
she wailed.
Im not even as good as the dirt beneath her feet.
Shes been here so long, shes in your confidence and knows how to make up to you.
Im a newcomer and no good at flattery.
How can I compare with her?
Why be so hard on me?
How many girls are fated to be Imperial Consorts?
Do a few good turns, or else youll end up like me married to a fool, a grass-widow and a disgrace to the family!
By now Aunt Xue could contain herself no longer.
She sprang up.
Im not defending my own child, she cried.
She was advising you for your own good, yet you keep taunting her.
If you have grievances, dont quarrel with her.
Better strangle me instead!
Baochai hastily intervened, Mother, dont be angry.
We came here to calm her down, but by losing our own tempers were making things worse.
Lets go now, and wait till sister-in-law feels better before we say any more.
She told Baochan, You stop your rumpus too.
As she and her mother went out to cross the courtyard, they saw one of the Lady Dowagers maids approaching with Xiangling.
Where have you come from?
asked Aunt Xue.
Is the old lady well?
Yes, madam, she is.
She sent me to give you her greetings and thank you for those lichees the other day, as well as to congratulate Miss Baoqin.
How long have you been here?
asked Baochai.
Quite a while now.
Aunt Xue flushed, aware that she must have overheard them.
Nowadays we have these disgraceful scenes not like a respectable family, she said.
It must sound ridiculous to you over there.
Dont say that, madam!
What family doesnt have a few tiffs and squabbles?
You are over-sensitive.
The maid followed them to their room and after sitting there for a while went off.
Baochai was just giving Xiangling some instructions when Aunt Xue suddenly let out a cry Ive such a pain in my left side!
To their consternation, she collapsed on the kang.
To know the upshot of this, read the next chapter.
Chapter 84 Baoyus Writing Is Tested and His Marriage Considered Jia Huan Visits an Invalid and Arouses Fresh Resentment Aunt Xues anger over the scene with Jingui upset her liver, bringing on a pain in her left side.
Baochai, knowing the cause, did not wait for the doctor to come but first sent out to buy a little Ourouparia rbyncbopbylla and brewed a strong bowlful of this for her to drink.
Then she and Xiangling massaged the patients legs and rubbed her chest until presently she felt better.
Aunt Xue was both angry and sad angry with Jingui who had proved such a shrew, and sorry for Baochai who was so forbearing.
Baochai soothed her till she drifted off to sleep, and her liver gradually ceased to trouble her.
You mustnt take these quarrels to heart, mother, Baochai urged her.
In a few days, when you feel up to it, why not go and enjoy a chat with the old lady and Aunt Wang.
After all, Xiangling and I are here to see to things at home, and I dont suppose shell dare try anything.
Aunt Xue nodded.
Ill wait a couple of days and see.
The Imperial Consorts recovery restored the whole households good humour.
Especially when, a few days later, some old eunuchs came with gifts and silver from her, announcing that Her Highness wished to express her gratitude for the familys concern, and apportioning each ones share.
Jia She and ha Zheng sent word of this to the Lady Dowager, and together they returned thanks to Her Highness.
After some tea the eunuchs left, and Their Lordships went to the old ladys room to chat until one of the serving-women outside reported The pages say someone has come to see the Elder Master on important business.
The old lady urged him to go, and Jia She withdrew.
Struck by a sudden thought then, she remarked cheerfully to Jia Zheng, Her Imperial Highness is really very concerned about Baoyu.
The other day she asked after him specially.
But the scamp has fallen short of her kind expectations, he answered.
He wont study properly.
Well, I put in a good word for him.
I told her that recently hed learned to write essays.
No, he still isnt up to that, madam.
Youre always sending him to write poems and essays outside, and doesnt he do all right?
Hes only a child you have to teach him slowly.
As the saying goes, No one grows fat on just one mouthful.
Quite right, madam, he agreed at once with a smile.
Talking of Baoyu, she went on, I want to consult you on something.
Now that hes growing up, you should look out for some nice girl for him.
After all, marriage is for life its very important.
Whether shes a distant relative or a close one, wealthy or poor, is immaterial.
Provided we know for sure that she has a good temper and is nice-looking, that will do well enough.
Thats very true, madam, but Id just like to add this Before we find a good girl for him he must learn better ways himself.
Otherwise, if he turned out a neer-do-well and spoilt some girls life, that would be deplorable.
This answer vexed the old lady.
Of course, she said, with his father and mother at hand, why should I worry my head over this?
I suppose, as Baoyus been with me since he was small, I may have spoilt him a bit and held up his progress.
Still, he seems to me quite handsome and, whats more, he has a good heart.
How can you be so sure hes a good-for-nothing, bound to spoil some girls life?
Or am I prejudiced?
I think hes better anyway than Huan.
Whats your opinion?
Disconcerted by this, Jia Zheng answered with a smile, You have so much experience of people, madam, if you approve of him and think him promising, you cant be wrong.
I was just a little too anxious for him to grow up quickly.
This may be the reverse of that old saying, No man recognizes his sons good qualities.
1 The old lady laughed at this and the others joined in.
Now that youre getting on in years and have an official post youre naturally growing more diplomatic, she chuckled.
She turned to tell Lady Xing and Lady Wang, When I think of him as a boy, with his cranky ways, he was twice as bad as Baoyu!
It was only after his marriage that he began to learn a little sense.
Now hes for ever complaining about his son, but to my mind Baoyu shows a bit more understanding than he does!
Both her daughters-in-law laughed, You will have your little joke, madam!
Some young maids came in then to ask Yuanyang to announce that dinner was ready.
What are you whispering about over there?
the old lady asked.
When told by Yuanyang she said, In that case the rest of you had better all go and have dinner, leaving just Xifeng and Zhens wife to eat with me.
Jia Zheng and Their Ladyships agreed to this but waited none the less till the meal was served and she dismissed them again before withdrawing, Lady Xing returning to the other mansion.
Jia Zheng and Lady Wang went back to their own quarters, where he reverted to his mothers proposal.
The old lady dotes on Baoyu, he said.
But he must have some solid learning if hes to get an official rank in future.
Then all her affection for him wont have been wasted, and he wont ruin some girls life.
Of course you are right, sir, agreed Lady Wang.
He sent one of the maids to Li Gui with the message When Baoyu gets back from school and has had his dinner, I want him to come here at once.
I have something to ask him.
Very good, was Li Guis answer.
So when Baoyu, back from school, was about to pay his duty calls, Li Gui told him, Theres no need for that, Second Master.
Youre to go to see your father after dinner.
I hear he has some questions to ask you.
Baoyu was thunder-struck.
Having called on his grandmother he went back to the Garden for a hasty meal, then rinsed his mouth and hurried over to see his father, whom he found sitting in his inner study.
Baoyu paid his respects, then stood there at attention.
These days I have had other things on my mind, so theres something I forgot to ask you, said Jia Zheng.
Earlier on, you said your teacher had told you to expound the classics for a month, after which he would start you off on essay-writing.
Nearly two months have passed since then.
Have you started writing essays?
Ive only written three, sir.
The teacher said, there was no need to tell you until I can write better.
Thats why I didnt venture to report.
What were the subjects?
One was At fifteen I set my mind on study, one was When people do not know him he bears no resentment, one was Then they followed the Mohists.
2 Do you have the drafts?
I copied them all out and the teacher corrected them.
Did you bring them home or leave them at school?
They are at school.
Have them fetched for me to see.
Baoyu promptly sent word to Beiming that he was to fetch him quickly from the school a thin bamboo-paper copybook labelled Class Work, which was in the drawer of his desk.
Soon Beiming brought in the exercise book and gave it to Baoyu, who handed it to his father.
Opening it he read the first essay entitled At fifteen I set my mind on study.
Baoyu had started off, Even as a child the sage had already set his mind on study.
Dairu had crossed out child and substituted at fifteen.
Jia Zheng commented, Your use of child doesnt make the meaning clear, because childhood lasts until the age of sixteen.
In this passage the sage explained how his learning and understanding improved with the years that is why he specified clearly his attainments at fifteen, thirty, forty, fifty, sixty and seventy, to show different stages of development.
By changing your child to at fifteen your teacher made it much clearer.
Going on to read the exegesis he saw that the original, which had been crossed out, started, Now it is common for people not to be bent on study.
He shook his head.
Not only is this childish, it shows you have no desire to become a scholar.
He read on, For the sage to set his mind on it at fifteen was surely very rare.
This is even greater nonsense!
he exclaimed.
Then he read Dairus correction, Who is there who does not study?
But few set their minds on it.
This was why the sage had faith in himself when he was fifteen.
Do you understand his corrections?
he asked.
Yes, sir.
His father then turned to the second essay on When people do not know him he bears no resentment.
First he read the teachers correction One who does not grieve because other people do not recognize his merits will remain well content.
Then strained his eyes to read what had been crossed out.
What is this?
When one is not annoyed with people, he is truly a scholar.
First you tackle only the idea of no resentment.
Then you confuse the definition of a gentleman.
Of course that had to be changed to fit the subject.
Besides, to be logical, the second part should refer to what precedes it.
You need to think things over more carefully.
Yes, sir.
Jia Zheng read on, Now all men grieve if their talents go unrecognized, yet he was an exception.
How could he have achieved this unless he was well content?
And Baoyus conclusion read, Wasnt he a true scholar?
Jia Zheng commented, This has the same fault as the opening.
The correction, though a little flat, will pass muster.
The third essay was on Then they followed the Mohists.
After reading the title he looked up thoughtfully to ask Baoyu, Have you studied Mencius already?
The teacher said Mencius was easier to understand, so he taught me that first, sir.
We finished three days ago and are on the first half of The Analects now.
Jia Zheng saw that the opening was virtually unaltered.
It seems there was no other course to follow apart from that of Yang Zhu.
Thats not too bad for you, he commented, then read on, It is not that men wanted to follow the Mohists, but as Mozis teachings swayed half the world, apart from Yang Zhu who else was there to follow?
Did you write this?
he asked his son.
Yes, sir.
Jia Zheng nodded.
Its nothing very brilliant still its not bad for a beginner.
The other year at my post I set the subject Only a knight is capable of this.
3 Those candidates had all read essays on this theme, and instead of writing something original they could only plagiarize.
Have you studied that passage?
Yes, sir.
I want you to introduce some ideas of your own.
Dont imitate earlier writers.
Just broach the theme and that will be enough.
Baoyu, forced to accept this assignment, lowered his head and cudgelled his brains while his father, his hands clasped behind his back, also stood by the door thinking.
Just then a young page came dashing towards the gate.
At sight of the master he pulled up and stood respectfully with his arms at his sides.
What are you doing?
Jia Zheng asked.
Madam Xue has called on the old lady, and Madam Lian has told us to order dinner.
As Jia Zheng made no comment, the page withdrew.
Now ever since Baochai had left the Garden, Baoyu had missed her acutely.
On hearing that Aunt Xue had called, he assumed that Baochai must be with her.
He braced himself to say Ive broached the subject, sir, but dont know whether it will do or not.
Read it out.
Not all men in the world are knights.
If one without property can remain steadfast, that is quite exemplary.
Jia Zheng nodded.
That will do.
In future when you write essays, you must first make clear the definitions and grasp the meaning and logic.
Does the old lady know that youre here?
Yes, sir.
In that case, you had better go now to her place.
Baoyu assented.
Controlling his impatience he slowly withdrew.
However, once past the screen by the moon-gate at the end of the corridor, he ran like the wind to the Lady Dowagers compound, paying no attention to Beiming who called frantically after him Mind you dont fall!
The masters coming!
As soon as he entered the gate, Baoyu heard his mother and Xifeng laughing and chatting with Tanchun and some others.
At sight of him the maid who lifted the portire whispered Your aunt is here.
Baoyu hurried in to greet Aunt Xue, then paid his evening respects to the old lady.
How is it youre so late back from school?
she asked.
He explained that his father had been reading his essays and had made him broach a new theme.
His grandmother beamed.
Then he asked the others, Where is Cousin Baochai?
She didnt come, answered Aunt Xue with a smile.
Shes doing needlework at home with Xiangling.
Baoyu, disappointed as he was, could hardly leave at once.
As they were chatting dinner was served, and naturally the Lady Dowager and Aunt Xue took the seats of honour, with Tanchun and the others in lower seats.
How about Baoyu?
asked Aunt Xue.
Baoyu, come and sit with me, said the old lady.
When I came back from school, he countered quickly, Li Gui said my father wanted to see me after my meal so I asked at once for one dish and one bowl of rice with some tea, then went over there.
Please go on with your meal, ladies.
In that case, Xifeng can sit with me.
Your mother just told me that this is one of her fast days, so shell be eating separately.
Lady Wang also told Xifeng, Go ahead and eat with the old lady and Aunt Xue.
You neednt wait for me, Im fasting today.
Xifeng acquiescing, a maid set a cup and chopsticks before her.
She rose to take the wine-pot and fill the others cups before resuming her seat.
As they drank the Lady Dowager remarked, Just now, aunt, you mentioned Xiangling.
The other day I heard the maids speak of Qiuling, and had no idea whom they meant.
When I asked, I discovered it was Xiangling!
Why should the child change a perfectly good name?
Aunt Xue flushed crimson and sighed.
Dont mention that, madam!
she said.
Since Pan married that senseless wife of his they bicker all day long, not like a proper family at all.
Ive spoken to her several times, but shes too stubborn to listen and I havent the energy to wrangle with them so I just let them do as they please.
It was she who disliked the maids name and must needs change it.
Why, what was wrong with it?
Im ashamed to speak of it, madam.
But you over here know all that goes on in our household.
Of course it wasnt because the name was no good but because it was chosen by Baochai or so Ive heard.
Thats why she wanted to change it.
But why should that be?
Aunt Xue wiped her tears with her handkerchief.
Before going on she sighed.
Youve no idea, madam!
Nowadays my daughter-in-law keeps picking on Baochai.
The other day when you sent someone to see me, we were in the middle of a family row.
Yes, the other day I heard you had liver trouble and meant to send someone to ask after you but then I didnt, because they said you were better.
My advice to you is Dont take such things to heart.
The young couple are newly married theyll get straightened out in time.
Not everyone can have Baochais sweet disposition young as she is, shes much better than most older folk.
The other day when the maid came back to report, we all lauded her to the skies as one in a hundred, so broad-minded and sweet-tempered!
Im willing to guarantee that, once she marries, her in-laws are bound to love her and high and low in their house will look up to her.
Baoyu, who had been listlessly waiting for an excuse to leave, sat down again now to listen carefully.
Its no use, said Aunt Xue.
However good she is, shes only a girl.
And Pans grown up such a fool, he really causes me endless anxiety.
Im always afraid hell drink too much outside and land himself in trouble.
Luckily hes often with the gentlemen here That makes me feel easier in my mind.
Baoyu put in, Dont worry, aunty.
All his friends are big merchants and respectable people.
How could he get into trouble?
Aunt Xue smiled at him.
If youre right, then I neednt worry.
The meal at an end, Baoyu excused himself on the pretext that he had to study that evening.
And while some maids were serving tea, Hupo came in with a whispered message for the old lady, who turned to tell Xifeng You must go home at once to see to Qiaojie.
Xifeng did not know what had happened, and the others were mystified too until Hupo explained Just now Pinger sent a girl to report that Qiaojie is poorly.
She hopes youll go back at once, madam.
Go on, urged the Lady Dowager.
You dont have to stand on ceremony with your aunty.
Xifeng promptly assented and took her leave of Aunt Xue.
You go first, put in Lady Wang.
Ill be coming presently.
Poor little soul!
Dont let the maids make a commotion, and tell them to keep your pet dogs and cats quiet too.
A delicately nurtured child like her is bound to have these little upsets.
Murmuring assent, Xifeng went off with her maid.
Aunt Xue asked now about Daiyus illness.
Shes a good child, only too sensitive, said the old lady.
Thats undermined her health.
As far as intelligence goes, shes a match for Baochai but regarding consideration for other people, she hasnt her thoughtfulness and unselfishness.
After a little more idle talk Aunt Xue said, You should rest now, madam, and I must get back to see how things are doing, as there are only Baochai and Xiangling at home.
And from there I must go with my sister to see Qiaojie.
Thats right.
Youve had a great deal of experience.
Tell them if you notice anything amiss, so that theyll know what to do.
Thereupon Aunt Xue took her leave, accompanying Lady Wang to Xifengs quarters.
Jia Zheng, pleased by the results of Baoyus test, brought the subject up when he went out to chat with his secretaries.
One of them was the relative newcomer Wang Ertiao, a good chess-player whose courtesy name was Zuomei.
We can see that Master Bao has made great progress in learning.
he observed.
Progress?
No, said Jia Zheng.
Hes only just making a start.
And its too early by far to talk of learning.
Zhan Guang demurred, You are too modest, sir.
This is the opinion of us all, not only Mr. Wang.
Master Bao is sure to distinguish himself in the examinations.
You are too partial to him, gentlemen.
I have a proposal to make, sir, added Wang Ertiao, If you dont think it presumptuous.
What is it?
With a deferential smile Wang answered, Some acquaintances of mine, the family of Old Mr. Zhang the former Governor of Nanshao, have a daughter who is said to be a paragon of virtue and a beauty, and she is not yet bespoken.
The Zhangs have no son, and a property worth millions but they wont agree to a match until they can find a young man from a rich and noble house who is himself outstanding.
After two months here I can see that Master Bao, with his disposition and scholarship, will go far.
And your family, sir, is of course unexceptionable!
If I propose the match, I can vouch for it that they will agree at once.
Yes, Baoyu has reached the right age, and the old lady often speaks of this, Jia Zheng answered.
But I know very little about this Old Mr. Zhang.
I know this family Brother Wang means, said Zhan Guang.
The Zhangs are related to the Elder Master.
You can ask him about them, sir.
After a moments reflection Jia Zheng remarked, I have never heard him speak of this connection.
You wouldnt know of them, sir, because they are related to his brother-in-law Mr. Xing, Zhan Guang explained, whereupon Jia Zheng realized that they were relatives of Lady Xing.
After sitting there for a while he went in to pass on this proposal to his wife and get her to make inquiries of Lady Xing.
But his wife had gone with Aunt Xue to see Qiaojie, and she did not come back till the evening when Aunt Xue had left.
Only after telling her what his secretaries had said did Jia Zheng ask How is Qiaojie?
She seems to have had some kind of fit.
Is it serious?
It looks like epilepsy, but she hasnt had convulsions.
He simply coughed by way of comment, after which both of them retired for the night.
The next day, when Lady Xing came over to pay her respects, Lady Wang told her mother-in-law of this proposal and asked her sister-in-law about the Zhang family.
Though we are relatives from way back, these last few years weve been out of touch, was the answer.
I dont know what that girl is like.
But the other day Yingchuns mother-in-law Mrs. Sun sent an old woman to ask after us and she mentioned this Zhang family, saying they wanted Mrs. Sun to find a suitable husband for their daughter.
I hear shes an only child and very pampered.
She has studied a little, but being shy of company she always stays at home.
Because shes the only daughter, Old Mr. Zhang wont hear of her leaving home to be married, for fear her in-laws are too strict with her.
They want a son-in-law who will live with them and help to manage the household.
That would never do!
cried the old lady, not waiting for her to finish.
Our Baoyu needs people to look after him how can he manage someone elses household?
Quite so, madam, agreed Lady Xing.
The old lady turned to Lady Wang.
When you go back, tell your husband from me This match with the Zhang family is out of the question.
Lady Wang promised to do so.
And how did you find Qiaojie yesterday?
the old lady asked them next.
Just now Pinger came over and said shes in a bad way.
I intend to go and see her too.
We know how fond you are of her, but you shouldnt trouble, madam, they demurred.
No, its not just to see her.
I need a bit of exercise to loosen my joints.
They went off then, on her instructions, to have their meal, after which they escorted her to Xifengs compound.
Xifeng, hurrying out to meet them, invited them in.
How is Qiaojie?
asked the old lady.
Were afraid its epilepsy, was the reply.
In that case why dont you send for a doctor at once?
We already have, madam.
Their Ladyships went into the inner room where the nurse was holding the child wrapped up in a peach-red silk-padded quilt.
Her face was deathly pale, her forehead contorted and her nose feebly twitching.
After looking at her they went back to the other room and had just sat down to have a consultation when a young maid came in.
His Lordship has sent to ask after Qiaojie, she announced.
Tell him from me that weve sent for the doctor, answered Xifeng.
Well let the master know what prescription he makes out.
The old lady, recollecting the Zhangs proposal, reminded Lady Wang, You should go and let your husband know what we decided.
Otherwise the Zhangs may send a matchmaker and their request.
She asked Lady Xing, How is it you have nothing to do with the Zhang family these days?
Because their stingy ways dont suit us, madam.
Theyre not good enough for Baoyu!
From this Xifeng inferred what was afoot.
Are you talking about Brother Baos marriage, madam?
she asked.
Lady Xing having confirmed this, the old lady explained the conclusion they had reached.
Excuse my presumption, Old Ancestress, said Xifeng with a twinkle.
But theres an ideal match here.
Why look elsewhere?
The old lady, chuckling, asked what she meant.
One precious jade and one gold locker how could you forget that, madam?
Why didnt you propose it yesterday when your aunt was here?
countered the old lady, laughing.
In the presence of our Old Ancestress and Their Ladyships, how could we young people presume?
Besides, how could I bring that up when it was our Old Ancestress aunty came to see?
The way to do it is for Their Ladyships to call on her and make a formal proposal.
The Lady Dowager smiled, as did both her daughters-in-law.
Yes, that was stupid of me, she conceded.
Just then the doctor was announced.
The old lady remained in the outer room while Lady Xing and Lady Wang went inside.
The doctor, led in by Jia Lian, paid his respects to the Lady Dowager before going into the sickroom.
Returning after examining the patient, he bowed to the old lady and standing before her reported The childs trouble is half owing to hot humours, half to some external shock.
First we should dose her to clear up the cold and phlegm, then give her Four-Spirit Powder, because this illness is quite serious.
Nowadays the cow bezoar sold in the market is usually counterfeit.
Well have to find the genuine article.
When the old lady had thanked him the doctor went out with Jia Lian to write his prescription, then left.
We usually keep a stock of ginseng, said Xifeng.
But I doubt if we have any cow bezoar.
If we buy some outside we must make sure its genuine.
Let me send to Aunt Xue for some, proposed Lady Wang.
Xue Pan does so much business with overseas merchants, he may have some genuine bezoar.
Ill send to ask them.
At this point the girls of the family came to ask after Qiaojie, and after a short visit left with the old lady.
When the medicine was ready they forced it down Qiaojies throat and, gagging, she brought it up with some phlegm, much to her mothers relief.
And now one of Lady Wangs young maids came in with a small red package.
Heres the bezoar, madam, she said.
Her Ladyship wants you to weigh it yourself to make sure the amount is correct.
Xifeng took it, assenting, and told Pinger to make haste and brew the pearl powder, baroos camphor and cinnabar while she herself used a small steelyard to weigh out the required amount of cow bezoar.
This had just been mixed with the other ingredients, ready to dose Qiaojie when she woke up, when Jia Huan raised the portiere and came in.
Whats the matter with Qiaojie, Second Cousin?
he asked.
My mother sent me to see her.
Shes better, answered Xifeng, who had an aversion to both him and Concubine Zhao.
Go back and thank your mother for her concern.
Jia Huan, while agreeing to this, kept staring around.
I hear youve got cow bezoar here.
Whats it like?
he asked.
Can I have a look?
Dont be such a nuisance!
she scolded.
Qiaojies only just on the mend.
The bezoar is being brewed.
Jia Huan reaching out for the skillet bumped against it.
It overturned with a splash, dousing the fire, and ashamed of his bungling he took to his heels.
Beside herself with fury Xifeng cursed, Our true sworn enemy, arent you!
Why play such dirty tricks here?
Your mother tried to do me in before now you come to do for Qiaojie!
What cause have I given you to make you hate us so?
She swore at Pinger too for not stopping him.
As she was raging a maid came in looking for Huan.
Go and tell Concubine Zhao to stop trying so hard!
snapped Xifeng.
Qiaojies done for she neednt worry!
Pinger was hastily brewing a fresh lot of medicine, and the maid not knowing what was amiss asked in a whisper why Madam Lian was so angry.
Pinger told her how Huan had upset the skillet.
No wonder he dared not go home!
exclaimed the maid.
He must be hiding somewhere.
Goodness knows what hell be up to next!
Let me clear up for you, sister.
Theres no need.
Luckily there was still a bit of cow bezoar left, and its ready now.
Youd better go.
Im going back to tell Concubine Zhao, said the maid.
This should stop her singing his praises every day.
On her return she was as good as her word.
Concubine Zhao sent angrily for her son, and the maid found him skulking in an outer room.
You good-for-nothing!
scolded his mother.
Why spill their medicine, giving them a chance to curse us?
I told you to call to ask after her, not to go in.
But in you went, and instead of leaving at once you had to catch lice on the tigers head.
Just wait till I tell your father, and see what a thrashing hell give you!
As Concubine Zhao was storming, Jia Huan in the outer room made an even more startling statement.
To know what it was, read on.
Chapter 85 Jia Zheng Is Promoted to the Rank of Vice-Minister Xue Pan Is Involved in Another Manslaughter Case As Concubine Zhao in her room was raging at Jia Huan in the outer room, he suddenly blurted out All I did was upset the skillet and spill some medicine I didnt kill the brat!
Why should everyone curse me as if I were a monster?
Do you want to hound me to death?
Some day Ill kill that little bitch, and lets see what you do then!
Just tell them to watch out.
His mother hurried out to stop his mouth.
Still raving!
she cried.
Do you want them to kill me first?
Mother and son wrangled for a time.
And Xifengs taunts so rankled with Concubine Zhao that she sent her no further condolences.
Although in a few days Qiaojie recovered, their two households were on even worse terms than before.
One day, Lin Zhixiao reported to Jia Zheng, Today is the birthday of the Prince of Beijing.
What are your instructions, sir?
Just send presents as we did in the past, after letting Lord She know.
The steward accepted these orders and went to carry them out.
Presently Jia She came over and they decided to take Jia Zhen, Jia Lian and Baoyu with them to offer congratulations.
The others took this as a matter of course, but Baoyu was most eager to see more of the prince whose distinguished appearance and manners had so impressed him.
He changed hastily into ceremonial dress and went with his father to the princes mansion, where Their Lordships sent in their cards, then waited to be summoned.
Soon a eunuch came out, a chaplet in his hand, and beamed at the sight of them, asking How are you two gentlemen?
Jia She and Jia Zheng greeted him in return, and the three young men followed suit.
His Highness asks you to come in, said the eunuch.
The five of them followed him in past two gates and one court to the inner palace gate, where they halted while he went in to announce their arrival and the young eunuchs there stepped forward to greet them.
Before long, the eunuch returned to invite them in, and they followed him respectfully.
The Prince of Beijing in ceremonial robes had come out to the corridor to meet them.
First Their Lordships stepped forward to pay their respects, and after them Jia Zhen, Jia Lian and Baoyu.
The prince took Baoyu by the hand.
Its so long since I saw you, he said, Ive been thinking of you.
With a smile he asked, Have you kept that jade of yours safe?
Baoyu bowed and bent one knee as he replied, By the grace of Your Highness, yes.
Ive no rich fare to offer you today, but let us have a chat, the prince proposed.
Some eunuchs raised the portiere and he led the way in, followed by Jia Shes party with bowed heads.
First Jia She asked to pay homage and knelt down even while the prince was declining.
Then Jia Zheng and the others made obeisance too.
As they were withdrawing respectfully, the prince ordered eunuchs to take them all but Baoyu to join his relatives and friends and to entertain them well.
He offered Baoyu a seat so that they could talk, and the boy kowtowed his thanks.
Then seated on the edge of an openwork porcelain stool near the door he launched into a description of his studies and essay writing, to which the prince listened with sympathetic interest.
Yesterday, the prince told him after tea had been served, Governor Wu came to court and spoke of your honourable fathers probity as an examiner, and the great respect in which all the candidates held him.
His Majesty asked about this when he received him, and the governor commended your father most highly.
This augurs well for him.
Baoyu who had stood to hear this replied, Your gracious Highness and Governor Wu are most kind.
At this point a young eunuch entered to report, The gentlemen in the front court thank Your Highness for the feast.
He presented the cards on which the guests paid their respects, and the prince after glancing at them handed them back, remarking with a smile I have put them to undue trouble.
And the special meal Your Highness is conferring on Jia Baoyu is ready now.
He received orders then to take Baoyu to a small courtyard, a charming place where attendants waited on him at his meal.
On his return to offer thanks, the prince spoke to him kindly again and suddenly remarked with a smile Last time I was so intrigued by that jade of yours that on my return I had a replica made.
Im glad you have come today you can take it back for your amusement.
He made the young eunuch fetch it and gave it to Baoyu, who received it with both hands, thanked him and then withdrew.
Two young eunuchs escorted him out on their masters orders and he went back with Jia She and the rest.
While Jia She went home, Jia Zheng took the three young men to call on the old lady and tell her whom they had met in the princes mansion, after which Baoyu reported to his father how Governor Wu had recommended him to the Emperor.
This Governor Wu is an old family friend, observed Jia Zheng.
He is one of our sort, a man of integrity.
After a little more casual talk the Lady Dowager urged them to go and rest.
Jia Zheng took his leave but told his three juniors, who were following him to the door, to stay and keep the old lady company.
Back in his room he had barely sat down when a maid announced Lin Zhixiao is outside with something to report, sir.
She presented Governor Wus red visiting-card.
Realizing that Governor Wu had called in his absence, Jia Zheng told her to bring the steward in, and went out to the corridor to see him.
Lin Zhixiao reported, Today Governor Wu came to call, and I told him where you had gone, sir.
I also heard that a vacancy for a vice-minister has come up in the Ministry of Works, and people outside and in the ministry are all saying that you are to be appointed, sir.
That remains to be seen, replied Jia Zheng.
Lin Zhixiao reported then on a few other matters and left.
Now Baoyu, the only one of the three young men to have stayed with his grandmother, described how the prince had entertained him and displayed the jade given him.
When it had been admired by all, the old lady ordered the maids to put it away so that he would not lose it.
Mind you keep your own jade safely, she warned Baoyu.
Dont mix them up!
Taking his jade from his neck he rejoined, This is mine how could I lose it?
Theyre quite different when you compare them.
Impossible to confuse them.
And theres something else Ive been meaning to tell you, madam.
The other night when I went to bed and hung my jade on the curtain, it started glowing, making the whole curtain red!
Youre talking nonsense again, she said.
The valance of the canopy is red, so naturally when it catches the light the curtain seems red too.
No, the light was out by then.
The whole room was pitch dark, and yet I saw it clearly.
Lady Xing and Lady Wang exchanged meaning smiles.
Its a lucky sign, Xifeng assured him.
A lucky sign?
What do you mean?
You wouldnt understand, said his grandmother.
Youve had an exciting day, so go and rest now.
Dont stay here talking nonsense.
Baoyu hung around for a while before going back to the Garden, and as soon as he had gone the old lady said That reminds me, when you went to see Aunt Xue did you broach that business?
We only went today, replied Lady Wang, because Xifeng was held up for two days by Qiaojies illness.
We told Aunt Xue, and she was only too willing.
However, she says she must first consult Xue Pan as his fathers gone and Pans still away from home.
Quite right too, agreed the old lady.
Wed better not make it public, in that case, until Aunt Xue has decided.
But no more of their discussion about Baoyus marriage.
Baoyu back in his own quarters told Xiren, Just now my grandmother and Cousin Xifeng were talking so cryptically, Id no idea what they meant.
Xiren reflected, then smiled.
I cant guess either, she said.
Was Miss Lin there at the time?
No, she hasnt been over there recently shes only just left her bed.
Just then they heard a quarrel break out in the outer room between Sheyue and Qiuwen.
What are you two scrapping about now?
called Xiren.
We were playing cards, said Sheyue, coming in.
When she won she took my money, but when I won she wouldnt pay.
To make it worse, she grabbed my whole bank too.
What does a little money matter?
chuckled Baoyu.
Stop making such a noise, you silly things.
The two girls went off then and sat down to sulk while Xiren helped Baoyu to bed.
Xiren had realized from Baoyus remark that his marriage was under discussion.
She had not told him this, however, for fear that his senseless notions would make him burst out again with a flood of foolish talk.
But as she too was deeply concerned about his marriage, she lay awake that night thinking and decided to go to see if Zijuan knew of any developments which might shed light on the matter.
The next day she rose early.
Having seen Baoyu off to school, she spruced herself up and walked slowly to Bamboo Lodge.
Zijuan, whom she found picking flowers, invited her to go in and take a seat.
Thanks, sister, I will, said Xiren.
Picking flowers are you?
Wheres your young lady?
Shes just finished dressing and is waiting for her medicine to be heated.
She led Xiren inside, where Daiyu was reading.
No wonder you wear yourself out, miss, reading as soon as you get up, said Xiren cheerfully.
I only wish our Master Bao would study as hard as you do!
Daiyu smilingly put down her book.
By now Xueyan had brought in a small tray on which were one cup of medicine, another of water, while a young maid behind her was holding a spittoon and rinse-bowl.
Xiren had come to size up the situation.
But although she sat there for a while she found it impossible to approach the subject and she did not like to risk upsetting Daiyu, sensitive as she was, by fishing for information.
So presently she made some excuse to leave.
Approaching Happy Red Court, she halted at sight of two people standing outside.
One of them, spotting her, ran over and Xiren saw it was Chuyao.
What are you doing here?
she asked.
Just now Master Yun came with a note for Master Bao.
Hes waiting here for a reply.
Surely you know that Master Bao goes to school every day.
Why wait for a reply?
I told him that, but he wanted me to tell you, miss, so that you can give him an answer.
Before Xiren could make any comment she recognized the other person as Jia Yun, now sidling sheepishly towards her.
Tell him Ive got the note and Ill give it to Master Bao later, she told Chuyao.
Jia Yun had been hoping to engage Xiren in conversation in order to ingratiate himself with her, but for fear of seeming presumptuous he had come over slowly.
Being close enough now to hear this remark, he could hardly come any further.
And as Xiren now turned her back on him and went in, he had to leave dejectedly with Chuyao.
When Baoyu came home that evening Xiren told him, Today young Master Yun who lives in the lane called.
What did he want?
He left a note.
Where is it?
Let me see it.
Sheyue fetched it from the bookcase in the inner room, and Baoyu saw that the envelope was inscribed Respected Uncle.
Why has this boy stopped calling me father?
he demanded.
What do you mean?
asked Xiren.
The other year when he sent me those white begonias, he called me his god-father.
Now on this envelope hes written uncle.
Evidently he no longer considers me as his father.
He has no sense of shame, and neither have you!
she scolded.
A big fellow like him calling a boy like you father isnt that shameless?
Why, youre not even... She broke off, blushing and smiling.
Baoyu knowing what she meant rejoined, That doesnt follow.
As the saying goes, A childless monk may have many filial sons.
I agreed to it only because he struck me as clever and pleasant.
If he backs out, what do I care!
While saying this he opened the letter.
Theres something shifty about young Master Yun, observed Xiren.
At times he insists on seeing you, at others he looks around slyly it shows hes up to no good.
Baoyu concentrating on his letter ignored her comments, and Xiren saw that its contents made him frown, smile and shake his head by turns.
He ended up looking exasperated.
Well, what does he say?
she asked.
By way of answer he tore the note into pieces.
To change the subject she asked, Will you be studying again after dinner?
Leaving her question unanswered he exclaimed, What a swine this young Yun is ridiculous!
Whats the matter anyway?
she asked with a smile.
Why ask?
Lets eat now, then we can rest.
Im fed up.
He told a young maid to light a fire and burned the scraps of the letter.
But when the meal was ready presently, he sat down in a daze and Xiren had to coax him to get him to eat one mouthful.
Soon he pushed aside his bowl and flung himself down moodily on the couch.
Then he suddenly burst into tears.
Xiren and Sheyue were nonplussed.
Why carry on like this for no reason at all?
cried Sheyue.
Its all that Jia Yuns fault!
Why should he send such a stupid note to addle Master Baos wits and send him into hysterics.
If he goes on bottling up his feelings like this, what are we to do?
She started sobbing too.
Xiren could hardly help laughing.
Cut that out, good sister!
she urged her.
Its bad enough him making a scene without your joining in.
What has that letter got to do with you?
Thats crazy talk, Sheyue countered.
Who knows what rubbish he wrote?
Why pin it on me?
Come to that, his note may have had to do with you!
Before Xiren could answer Baoyu burst out laughing and, scrambling off the couch, smoothed out his clothes.
Stop squabbling and lets sleep now, he said.
I must get up early tomorrow to go to school.
So they went to bed, passing an uneventful night.
The next morning when Baoyu had dressed he set off to school.
But as he was leaving his compound, struck by a thought he told Beiming to wait, then turned to call Sheyue.
What brings you back?
she asked him, coming out.
If Jia Yun comes again today, tell him not to fool about here.
If he does, Ill tell the old lady and the master.
Sheyue agreed to this.
But Baoyu had no sooner started off again than he saw Jia Yun hurrying towards him.
At sight of Baoyu he swept him a bow.
Congratulations, uncle!
Youve got a nerve!
Baoyu retorted, remembering his note of the previous day.
Disturbing me when I have other things on my mind.
You can have a look, uncle, if you dont believe me.
The heralds are already here at the main gate.
More exasperated than ever Baoyu cried, What are you talking about?
Just then they heard shouting outside.
Listen, uncle, to that!
This set Baoyu wondering.
Have you no manners?
they heard someone shout.
How dare you make such a row here?
Another voice answered, Your master has been promoted!
How can you stop us proclaiming the good news?
Other families would be only too pleased to hear us!
Then Baoyu realized with delight that they were announcing his fathers promotion to be vice-minister.
He started off.
Jia Yun caught up with him, saying, Are you pleased, uncle?
Once your marriage is fixed, that 11 be double happiness for you!
Baoyu flushed and spat.
Clear off, you oaf!
What have I said wrong?
Jia Yun reddened.
Wouldnt you...?
Wouldnt I what?
demanded Baoyu sternly.
Then ha Yun dared say no more, and Baoyu hurried off to school.
What brings you here today?
asked Dairu beaming.
I just heard of your fathers promotion.
I came to see you, sir, before going to my father, said Baoyu respectfully.
You need not study today, you can have a holiday.
But dont spend it playing in the Garden.
Youre no longer a child, remember.
Though you cant handle affairs yet, you should learn from your elder cousins.
Baoyu assented and went home.
At the inner gate he met Li Gui coming out.
So here you are, young master!
The steward halted, smiling.
I was just going to the school to fetch you.
On whose instructions?
The old lady sent to find you, and your maids said youd gone to school.
So just now she sent again to tell me to ask for a few days leave for you I hear operas will be put on to celebrate.
Youve turned up just in time, Master Bao.
Passing through the gate, Baoyu observed that all the maids and matrons in the court were beaming.
Why so late, Master Bao?
they cried.
Go in and congratulate the old lady, quick!
Baoyu entered his grandmothers room and his face lit up when he saw Daiyu sitting on her left, Xiangyun on her right.
All the ladies of the house had assembled there except for Baochai, Baoqin and Yingchun.
Beside himself with joy, he offered congratulations to his grandmother and then to Their Ladyships, after which he greeted his cousins one by one.
Are you better, cousin?
he asked Daiyu.
Yes, much better, she answered with a smile.
I heard you were unwell too.
Are you all right now?
Oh yes.
That night I suddenly had a pain in my heart, but these last few days Ive been well enough to go back to school.
Thats why Ive had no time to call on you.
While he was still speaking Daiyu turned away to talk to Tanchun.
Xifeng standing near them smiled.
You two are behaving like guests, not like inseparables, she teased.
All these civilities!
Well, as the saying goes, you show each other respect as to a guest.
The others laughed while Daiyu blushed furiously, not knowing whether to let this go or not.
After some hesitation she blurted out What do you know about it?
That set the company laughing even more loudly.
Xifeng, conscious of her gaffe, was wondering how to change the subject when Baoyu suddenly exclaimed to Daiyu Cousin Lin, you never saw anyone as boorish as Jia Yun...
He broke off without finishing the sentence.
This provoked a fresh gale of mirth.
What is all this?
others asked.
Daiyu, also in the dark, smiled shyly too.
Baoyu hedged, Just now I heard that some operas are to be presented.
When will that be?
All looked at him, still laughing.
If you heard that outside.
quipped Xifeng, you should come and tell us, not ask us about it.
Ill go and find out, he offered.
Dont go running around outside, warned the old lady.
For one thing, the heralds would laugh at you.
For another, your fathers in a good humour today, but if he saw you outside he would be angry.
Yes, madam, said Baoyu, then slipped away.
The old lady asked Xifeng, Whos talked of presenting operas?
Uncle Wang.
He said that the day after tomorrow, which is an auspicious day, hell send over a new company of actresses to congratulate you, madam, as well as the master and mistress.
She added with a twinkle, Itll not only be an auspicious day but a happy occasion too.
That day... She winked at Daiyu, who smiled back.
Why, of course!
exclaimed Lady Wang.
Its our nieces birthday.
The old lady thought for a second and then said, It shows Im growing old, I get so muddled.
Its lucky I have Xifeng as my mentor.
All right then.
If Baoyus uncle wants to offer congratulations, Daiyus uncles family can celebrate her birthday too.
Everybody laughed.
Whatever our Old Ancestress says is so aptly put, no wonder she has such good fortune!
someone exclaimed.
Baoyu coming back just then was in raptures when he heard about Daiyus birthday.
Presently they all had a meal there and made merry with the old lady.
After the meal, Jia Zheng came hack from thanking the Emperor and kowtowed to the ancestors, then to his mother.
Standing before her, he spoke to her briefly before going out to entertain his guests.
A constant stream of kinsmen was coming and going now, with a great noise and bustle.
Carriages and horses thronged the gate silks and sables filled the hall.
Truly -771 Bees and butterflies converge on flowers in bloom Sea and sky stretch boundless under the full moon!
These visits continued for two days till the time for the celebration.
Early that morning Wang Ziteng and other kinsmen had sent over a company of actresses, and a stage was set up in front of the Lady Dowagers main hall.
Outside it waited the men of the family, in official robes.
More than ten tables of feasts had been prepared for relatives and as the actresses were new and the old lady was in high spirits, they set up a glass screen in the inner hall to feast the ladies there.
At the table of honour sat Aunt Xue accompanied by Lady Wang and Baoqin.
Opposite was the table for the old lady accompanied by Lady Xing and Xiuyan.
The two lower tables were vacant, and the old lady urged the girls to seat themselves there quickly.
Presently Xifeng, a troop of maids behind her, escorted in Daiyu.
Dressed in new clothes and made up, she appeared like the moon goddess come down to earth as she greeted the others with a bashful smile.
Xiangyun, Li Wen and Li Qi invited her to take the best seat at their table, but she declined.
You must sit there today.
insisted the old lady, smiling.
Aunt Xue rose to ask, Is this a happy occasion for Miss Lin too?
Yes, its her birthday.
How could I have forgotten!
Aunt Xue went over to Daiyu.
Excuse my bad memory, child!
Ill send Baoqin over presently to offer her congratulations.
You are too kind.
Daiyu smiled.
While every one took a seat, she looked around and seeing Baochai was not there, she asked Aunt Xue, Hows Cousin Baochai?
Why hasnt she come today?
She should have come, but we have no one to keep an eye on things at home, so she has to stay in, Aunt Xue explained.
But now she has a sister-in-law, aunty, surely you dont need Baochai to mind the house?
I suppose she doesnt like joining in noisy parties, but I do miss her so!
Its good of you to think of her, said Aunt Xue.
She longs to see you all too.
One of these days Ill send her over to have a chat with you.
Now maids came in to pour wine and bring in dishes, while outside the performance had started.
The first two items, of course, had propitious themes.
When it came to the third, they saw fairy pages and maids with flags and pennons lead in a girl dressed as a goddess, with black gauze on her head, who sang an aria and then left the stage.
No one knew what opera this was till they heard it said outside that this was the scene Returning to Heaven from Hell from the new opera The Tale of Ruizhu.
2 The girl was the moon goddess who descended to earth and became betrothed to a mortal luckily the goddess Guanyin had shown her the right course and she died before her marriage took place.
She was now going back to the moon.
That was why she sang -771 Sweet they say is the love of mortals, Yet autumn moon and spring flowers are soon abandoned, And I nearly forgot the palace of the moon.
The fourth item was Eating Husks from The Tale of the Lute.
3 The fifth was about Bodhidharma leading his disciples back across the river a fantastic and most spectacular performance.
At the height of their enjoyment, one of the Xue family servants came rushing in, pouring with sweat.
Go back quickly, sir!
he panted to Xue Ke.
And ask madam to go back too.
Theres bad trouble at home!
Whats happened?
Xue Ke demanded.
Ill tell you when we get back, sir.
Xue Ke went off without stopping to take his leave.
And when maids took word of this to Aunt Xue, she turned pale with alarm.
After a hasty leave-taking she mounted her carriage with Baoqin to go back, amid general consternation.
We must send someone over to find out whats amiss and to show our concern, said the Lady Dowager.
The others approved this, then went on watching the opera.
Aunt Xue, reaching home, saw court runners standing by the inner gate.
Some assistants from the pawnshop were telling them Wait till the mistress comes home, then everything can be settled.
The runners, at the arrival of an old lady attended by so many servants, knew that this must be Xue Pans mother.
And as she looked someone of consequence they kept themselves in check, standing at attention to let her pass.
She went to the back from whence came sounds of wailing, and discovered Jingui there.
As she hurried forward Baochai came out to meet her, her face wet with tears.
So youve heard the news, mother, she said.
Dont worry.
We must find some way to square things!
Aunt Xue went inside with her daughter, trembling with fright after having heard from the servants in the court what her son had done.
Whom had he been quarrelling with?
she asked tearfully.
Dont try to get to the bottom of it now, madam, they urged her.
Taking a life is a capital offence regardless of persons.
We had better discuss what to do.
What is there to discuss?
she sobbed.
What we propose is this, they said.
Well get ready some silver tonight and go straight with Master Ke to see Master Pan.
We can find some shrewd scrivener there and pay him to tear up that capital offence charge then we can ask the Jia family to intercede with the magistrate of the yamen.
There are those runners waiting outside too.
First give them a few taels of silver to get rid of them, madam, and then we can get started.
Better find the other mans family, was Aunt Xues counter-proposal.
Promise them some money for the funeral as well as for compensation.
If they drop the charge, the matter can be hushed up.
That wont do, mother!
called Baochai from the inner room.
In a business like this, the more money you pay them the more trouble theyll make.
What the servants suggested was right.
I wish I were dead!
wailed Aunt Xue.
Ill go and see my son for the last time, then die together with him!
Baochai urged her to be of good comfort and called to the servants in the outer room, Quickly go with Master Ke to deal with this business.
Maids helped Aunt Xue inside.
If you have any news, cousin, send word at once!
called Baochai to Xue Ke who was starting out.
But stay there yourselves to cope.
Xue Ke assented and left.
And Jingui seized this chance, while Baochai was consoling her mother, to round upon Xianghing.
You used to boast that this family came to the capital after getting away scot-free with murder!
she raged.
Now hes really gone and killed a man!
And for all your bragging about the Xues wealth and powerful connections, look at the panic everybodys in now!
If my husbands for it and cant come back, youll all clear off leaving me to bear the brunt!
She burst out storming and sobbing.
Aunt Xue hearing this nearly fainted away with anger and Baochai, though frantic, was helpless.
At the height of this scene, one of Lady Wangs trusted maids came from the Jia Mansion to ascertain what had happened.
Baochai knew she was going to marry into their household, but as this had not yet been announced, and she was feeling desperate, she did not hide herself as etiquette demanded but told the maid At present this business isnt very clear.
All weve heard is that my brother has been arrested by the county yamen for killing a man outside.
We dont know what the verdict will be.
Xue Ke has just gone to make inquiries.
As soon as we have definite news, well send word to your mistress.
Go back now and thank her for her concern.
We shall be asking later for help from your master.
The maid accepted these instructions and left.
Aunt Xue and Baochai stayed at home in suspense until, two days later, a page came back with a letter which a young maid brought in.
Baochai opened it and read This case involving Brother Pan was inadvertent manslaughter, not murder.
This morning I sent in a plea in my name, but it has not yet been approved.
Brother Pans first confession was most unfortunate.
Once my plea is ratified, we shall ask to go to court again to retract it, and then he may be let off.
Five hundred more taels of silver to cover expenses are needed at once from our pawnshop.
There must be no delay!
Tell Aunt not to worry.
For the rest you can question the page.
Having perused this, Baochai read it out again in full for her mother.
So it seems his fate is still in the balance!
cried Aunt Xue, wiping her tears.
Dont be upset, mother, urged Baochai.
Lets first call in the page and find out the details.
She sent a maid to fetch him in, and Aunt Xue asked him to tell them just what had happened.
When I heard what Master Pan told Master Ke the other evening, I was frightened out of my wits!
he began.
To know his account of the matter, read the next chapter.
Chapter 86 An Old Magistrate Takes a Bribe to Re-open a Case A Young Girl, to While Away Time, Explains a Lute Score After listening to Xue Kes letter, Aunt Xue called in the page who had brought it.
You heard what Master Pan said.
How did he come to kill a man?
she asked.
I didnt get it too clear, madam.
That day he told Master Ke....
The page looked round to make sure they were alone before continuing, Master Pan said he was so sick of all these rows at home that he made up his mind to go south to buy goods.
He decided to ask somebody to go with him a certain Wu Liang who lives more than two hundred ii south of this city.
On his way to find him he met that Jiang Yuhan who used to be such a friend of his, bringing some young actors to town.
While they were having a meal and drinking together in his inn, Master Pan was annoyed by the way the waiter kept staring at Jiang Yuhan.
But then Jiang left.
The next day, while drinking with Wu Liang, Master Pan remembered what had happened the day before and, when the waiter was slow in bringing fresh wine, he started cursing him.
When the fellow answered back, he threatened him with his wine bowl.
The rogue craned his neck, daring our master to hit him.
Then Master Pan brought the bowl down on his head.
Blood spurted out and he dropped to the ground swearing but very soon he fell silent.
Why did no one stop him?
scolded Aunt Xue.
That, Master Pan didnt say and I dare not make anything up.
You go and rest now.
Yes, madam.
When the page had gone Aunt Xue went to see Lady Wang, to enlist her husbands help.
Learning what had happened, he hedged.
They must wait to see the magistrates response to Xue Pans petition, he said, before deciding on a course of action.
Aunt Xue sent the page back with more money from the pawnshop, and three days later received another letter.
She sent to tell Baochai, who came at once and read it out as follows With the money you sent we have squared the yamen officers.
Brother Pan is not being ill-treated in jail dont worry.
Only the local people are cutting up rough.
The dead mans family and the witnesses are holding out, and even that friend invited by Brother Pan is taking their side.
I and Li Xiang are strangers here, but luckily we found a good pettifogger, and after his palm was greased he came up with a plan.
He advised us to get hold of Wu Liang who was drinking with Brother Pan and bail him out, then offer him money to enlist his help.
If he wouldnt agree, we could say he was the one who killed Zhang San then laid the blame on an outsider.
If that scared him, then it should be easy to handle.
I took his advice and got Wu Liang out then we bribed the dead mans relatives and the witnesses and the day before yesterday I sent in another petition.
Today the answer has come, and I enclose a copy for you to see.
Baochai next read out the petition Petitioner.... -755 Petition on behalf of his brother, a victim of foul play who-has been unjustly accused.
My elder brother Xue Pan, a native of Nanjing now resident in the capital, set off on such and such a day to go south on business.
A few days after he left home, a family servant brought the news that he had been involved in manslaughter.
I came immediately to Your Honours county and learned that he had accidentally injured a man named Zhang.
When I went to the jail, he told me with tears that this Zhang was a stranger to him and there had been no enmity between them.
An accidental quarrel had broken out when my brother, asking for wine, spilt some on the ground.
Zhang San happened to be stooping to pick something up, and my brother, whose hand slipped, struck the top of his head with the wine bowl and killed him.
During interrogation, for fear of torture, he confessed that he had killed the man in a fight.
But Your Honour, in your infinite goodness, realized that this could not have been the case and deferred giving a verdict.
As my brother in jail is forbidden to send in a plea, on account of our close relationship I am venturing to intercede for him.
I hope Your Honour will graciously permit another trial.
This will be a great act of mercy, and my whole family will for ever remember your ineffable goodness.
This is my earnest petition.
The magistrates rescript read -755 Investigation at the scene of the crime uncovered definite proof and your brother, without being tortured, confessed in writing to killing a man in a brawl.
Coming from far away and not being an eye-witness, how can you trump up a case?
By law you should be punished, but in view of your brotherly concern I shall pardon you.
Your petition is rejected.
Hes done for, then!
exclaimed Aunt Xue.
What shall we do?
Wait till you hear the end of Brother Kes letter, said Baochai, then read it out.
-755 What really matters, the messenger can tell you.
Then Aunt Xue questioned the page.
The magistrate knows that our family is well off, madam, he said.
If we get help from people of consequence in the capital, then send him a handsome present, he can hold another trial and lighten the sentence.
Theres no time to be lost.
Any delay, and the master will suffer for it.
Aunt Xue dismissed the page and went straight to the Jia Mansion to tell Lady Wang of this and appeal to her husband.
Jia Zheng agreed only to send someone to speak to the magistrate not to send him a bribe.
And doubting the use of this, Aunt Xue prevailed on Xifeng to send Jia Lian with several thousand taels to buy off the magistrate, while Xue Ke at the same time squared the others involved.
Then the magistrate held a fresh trial, to which he summoned the local bailiff, witnesses and dead mans relatives as well as Xue Pan, who was fetched from the jail.
When the secretaries of the criminal department had checked the roll of names, the magistrate ordered the bailiff to identify the original deposition, then called forward the dead mans mother Mrs. Zhang and his uncle Zhang Er for questioning.
Mrs. Zhang, weeping, testified, My husband, Zhang Da, lived in the southern suburbs and died eighteen years ago.
My first and second sons died too, leaving me only Zhang San who has been killed.
He was twenty-three this year and not yet married.
Because our family is poor, with no means of livelihood, he worked as a waiter in Li Family Inn.
That afternoon, they sent from the inn to tell me he had been killed.
I was frightened to death, Your Honour!
I rushed there and saw him lying on the ground, at his last gasp, bleeding from a gash on his head.
When I called him he could not answer, and soon he died.
I must have it out with that young devil!
The runners raised an intimidating shout.
Then she kowtowed, pleading, Your Honour, avenge me!
He was the only son I had left.
The magistrate waved her aside and called for the inn-keeper.
Was Zhang San a workman in your inn?
he asked.
Not a workman but a waiter, Li Er replied.
At the autopsy, you said that Xue Pan killed Zhang San with a bowl.
Did you see him do it?
I was serving at the bar.
I heard a customer call for wine, and soon after that someone cried, Confound it!
Hes knocked out!
I ran there and saw Zhang San flat on the ground, unable to speak.
I lost no time in summoning the bailiff and sent word to Zhangs mother too.
But as to how the fight started, I really have no idea.
The man who was drinking with him must know that, Your Honour.
In your testimony at the first trial you said you witnessed the fight, said the magistrate sternly.
How is it youre now retracting?
The funk that I was in made me muddle things up.
Once more the runners raised a warning shout.
Next the magistrate asked Wu Liang, You were drinking with Xue Pan, werent you?
How did he come to strike the waiter?
Out with the truth!
I was at home that day when this Mr. Xue asked me out to drink with him.
Not liking the wine he called for a different kind and when Zhang San refused to fetch it, he flared up.
He dashed the wine over the waiters face, and somehow or other the bowl struck his head.
This I saw with my own eyes.
Rubbish!
At the autopsy, Xue Pan admitted to killing him with the bowl, and you confirmed that.
Why are you eating your words now?
Slap twenty-three this year and not yet married.
Because our family is poor, with no means of livelihood, he worked as a waiter in Li Family Inn.
That afternoon, they sent from the inn to tell me he had been killed.
I was frightened to death, Your Honour!
I rushed there and saw him lying on the ground, at his last gasp, bleeding from a gash on his head.
When I called him he could not answer, and soon he died.
I must have it out with that young devil!
The runners raised an intimidating shout.
Then she kowtowed, pleading, Your Honour, avenge me!
He was the only son I had left.
The magistrate waved her aside and called for the inn-keeper.
Was Zhang San a workman in your inn?
he asked.
Not a workman but a waiter, Li Er replied.
At the autopsy, you said that Xue Pan killed Zhang San with a bowl.
Did you see him do it?
I was serving at the bar.
I heard a customer call for wine, and soon after that someone cried, Confound it!
Hes knocked out!
I ran there and saw Zhang San flat on the ground, unable to speak.
I lost no time in summoning the bailiff and sent word to Zhangs mother too.
But as to how the fight started, I really have no idea.
The man who was drinking with him must know that, Your Honour.
In your testimony at the first trial you said you witnessed the fight, said the magistrate sternly.
How is it youre now retracting?
The funk that I was in made me muddle things up.
Once more the runners raised a warning shout.
Next the magistrate asked Wu Liang, You were drinking with Xue Pan, werent you?
How did he come to strike the waiter?
Out with the truth!
I was at home that day when this Mr. Xue asked me out to drink with him.
Not liking the wine he called for a different kind and when Zhang San refused to fetch it, he flared up.
He dashed the wine over the waiters face, and somehow or other the bowl struck his head.
This I saw with my own eyes.
Rubbish!
At the autopsy, Xue Pan admitted to killing him with the bowl, and you confirmed that.
Why are you eating your words now?
Slap his face!
With an answering shout the runners raised threatening hands.
Xue Pan didnt fight Zhang San truly!
faltered Wu Liang.
His hand slipped thats how the wine bowl hit Zhang Sans head.
Please have the goodness to ask Xue Pan, Your Honour!
The magistrate summoned Xue Pan.
What feud was there between you and Zhang San?
he demanded.
How did he die?
Tell the truth!
Be merciful, Your Honour!
begged Xue Pan.
I truly never hit him.
Because he wouldnt bring us better wine, I was emptying my bowl on the ground when my hand slipped and the bowl smashed in his head.
I tried to stem the bleeding, but couldnt.
Blood came pouring out, and presently he died.
At the autopsy that day, for fear Your Honour would have me beaten, I said Id struck him with the bowl.
I beg Your Honours pardon.
You dolt!
bellowed the magistrate.
When first I asked why you struck him, you said you were angry because he wouldnt fetch fresh wine.
But now you say it was an accident!
Glaring, he threatened to have him beaten and tortured.
But Xue Pan stuck to his statement.
The magistrate ordered the coroner, Give me an honest report of the wounds you recorded in the autopsy that day.
When I examined Zhang Sans corpse, said the coroner, the only wound on the body was one gash on the skull caused by a porcelain object.
Half an inch deep and 1.7 inches long, it had broken the skin and fractured 0.3 inch of the parietal bone.
This wound was undoubtedly caused by a blow.
The magistrate checked this with the post-mortem record.
Although knowing that the secretaries had altered this he did not dispute it but ordered them, hugger-mugger, to sign the new confession.
Your Honour!
sobbed Mrs. Zhang.
Last time, I heard there were other wounds.
How are there none today?
You are talking nonsense, he fumed.
Here is the post-mortem record.
Cant you read?
He then summoned the dead mans uncle Zhang Er to ask him, How many wounds were there on your nephews body?
One on the head, replied Zhang Er hastily.
Quite so, said the magistrate.
He made a secretary show Mrs. Zhang the record, and told the bailiff and Zhang Er to point out the testimony of all the eye-witnesses that there had been no fight and that this was not murder but simply an accident.
Having made them append their signatures, he consigned Xue Pan to jail until further notice, ordered the bailiff to take the others away, and declared the court adjourned.
When Mrs. Zhang wept and clamoured, he told runners to throw her out.
It really was an accident, Zhang Er assured her.
How can we hold him to blame?
Now His Honour has decided the case, dont make a scene.
Xue Ke, outside, was pleased when he heard the upshot.
He sent word home but stayed there himself, waiting to pay the plaintiffs compensation once the verdict was announced.
Then he overheard several passers-by in the street saying that an Imperial Concubine had died, and the Emperor had suspended court for three days.
As this place was not far from the Imperial Sepulchres, the local magistrate had to prepare for the funeral and would probably be occupied for some time.
Xue Ke, knowing that waiting there would serve no purpose, went to see Xue Pan in prison.
Just wait with an easy mind, cousin, he urged him.
Im going home but will be back before long.
To allay his mothers anxiety, Xue Pan gave him a note for her in which he had written I am all right now.
After a few more payments to the yamen Ill be able to return home.
Dont begrudge spending money!
Then, leaving Li Xiang to attend to things there, Xue Ke went home.
When he saw Aunt Xue, he told her how the magistrate had been suborned and decided the case in their favour, returning a verdict of death by misadventure.
After paying the dead mans family more compensation, we should have no further trouble, he concluded.
Aunt Xue said with relief, I was hoping youd come back to see to our family affairs.
I ought to go to thank the Jia family.
Besides, now that Imperial Concubine Zhou had died they have to go to court every day, leaving the house empty.
I was thinking of going over to help see to things and keep your aunt company, but we have no one at home.
Youve come just at the right time.
Its because I heard outside that Imperial Consort Jia had died that I hurried back.
I did wonder, though, how that could be, as she had been in good health.
Last year she had one bout of illness, then recovered.
This time we hadnt heard that she was unwell, but we were told that for several days the old lady in the Jia Mansion had been poorly, and whenever she closed her eyes she saw Her Highness that had everyone worried!
Yet when they sent to make inquiries, it seemed nothing was amiss.
Then three nights ago the old lady asked, How could Her Highness come all by herself to see me?
No one took her seriously, thinking this another hallucination brought on by illness.
You dont believe me, she said, but Yuanchun herself just told me Prosperity and splendour soon run out some way of escape must be found!
Still no one paid much attention, thinking it natural for an old soul of the worrying sort to have such notions.
But the very next morning, word came from the Palace that the Imperial Consort was mortally ill and all ladies of rank were to go to pay their respects.
That threw them into a fluster, and they hurried to the Palace.
Before their return, though, word reached us here that it was Imperial Concubine Zhou who died.
Just fancy, isnt it remarkable the way these rumours outside and our suspicions at home coincided!
Baochai put in, It wasnt just the rumours outside that misled us, but the mere words Her Highness set her family in a tizzy, and only afterwards did they find out the truth.
The last couple of days their maids have come and told us that they knew earlier on it couldnt be their Royal Highness.
How can you be sure?
I asked.
The answer was, A few years ago at New Year, someone in the provinces introduced to us a fortune-teller, said to be infallible.
The old lady told us to put Her Highness horoscope in with the maids for him to work out.
He said, There must be some mistake in the hour of birth of that girl born on the first of the first month.
Otherwise, she must be of high degree she couldnt be in this house.
Lord Zheng said, Never mind whether theres a mistake or not.
Just predict her fortune.
She was born in the year Jiashen, the month bin gym, he said.
Three of these characters signify demotion and bankruptcy.
Only shen augurs well for officialdom and wealth still that doesnt hold good for a girl who has to leave home.
The day of her birth is yimao.
In early spring the wood element is in the ascendant.
Although the two signs clash, the bigger the clash the better, just as in the case of good wood the more you polish it, the greater its value.
But most auspicious of all is the hour sign xinshi, xin meaning precious as gold, shi high rank and wealth.
Combined, they make up the winged horse sign, and the day in this combination is so exceptionally auspicious that she should soar up like the moon in the sky and rank high in the Emperors favour.
If the hour of her birth is correct, she must be a sovereign lady.
Wasnt that an accurate forecast?
said the maids.
We also remember his saying that unluckily her splendour would be short-lived.
If a mao month happened to fall in a yin year, there would be a double clash and that would undermine her strength, just as in the case of good wood if its carved too intricately.
They forgot all those predictions and got worked up over nothing.
But we remembered the other day and told our mistress.
This isnt the yin year nor the mao month, is it?
Before Baochai could finish, Xue Ke said excitedly, Never mind about other people.
If you know of such a miraculous fortune-teller, quickly give me Xue Pans horoscope Im sure hes under some evil star this year to have such a bad stroke of luck and Ill get him to work out whats going to happen.
That man came from the provinces, said Baochai.
We dont know whether hes still in the capital this year or not.
Baochai then helped her mother get ready to go to the Jia Mansion.
At the time of Aunt Xues arrival, the only ones of the family at home were Li Wan, Tanchun and Xichun, who asked her about Xue Pans case.
It wont be settled till the court has reported it to the higher-ups, Aunt Xue told them.
But it looks as if it wont be too serious.
They were relieved to hear this.
Tanchun remarked, Yesterday evening Her Ladyship, thinking back, said, Last time we had trouble at home, Aunt Xue rallied round.
But now, with troubles of our own, were in no position to help her.
This has been preying on her mind.
Ive been feeling bad myself, answered Aunt Xue.
But with your Cousin Pan in this fix and your Cousin Ke away to sort things out, there was only Baochai at home and what could she do?
I couldnt leave her before, especially not with my daughter-in-law so senseless.
At present the magistrate there is so busy preparing the funeral of Imperial Concubine Zhou, he has no time to wind up Pans case.
So your Cousin Ke has come back, making it possible for me to come over.
Wont you stay here for a few days, aunt?
urged Li Wan.
Id like to stay and keep you company for a bit.
Aunt Xue nodded.
But that would be rather lonely for Baochai.
If thats what worries you, aunty, why not bring her over too?
suggested Xichun.
Aunt Xue smiled.
No, that wouldnt do.
Why not?
asked Xichun.
Didnt she stay here before?
You dont understand, put in Li Wan.
She has work to do at home.
How could she come?
Xichun, thinking this the truth, did not press the point.
As they were chatting, the Lady Dowagers party returned.
At sight of Aunt Xue, without stopping to exchange greetings, they asked her for news of Xue Pan, which she gave them in full.
When she described his encounter with Jiang Yuhan, Baoyu though he could not ask in front of the rest knew that this was his friend the actor.
He wondered, If hes back in the capital, why hasnt he come to see me?
Baochais absence puzzled him too, and he remained lost in thought till Daiyus arrival cheered him up and stopped him thinking about her.
He and the girls stayed to dine with the old lady, after which they dispersed, Aunt Xue staying on to sleep in the old ladys annex.
Once home again, Baoyu was changing his clothes when he remembered the sash given him by Jiang Yuhan.
He asked Xiren, Do you still have that red sash which you refused to wear the other year?
I put it away, she said.
Why do you ask?
Oh, for no special reason.
Didnt you hear how Master Pan got charged with murder through mixing with such riffraff?
Why bring that up again?
Youd better study quietly and forget about such trifles, instead of worrying your head over nothing.
Im not doing anything wrong, am I?
lie demanded.
It just happened to cross my mind.
What does it matter whether you have it or not?
I ask one little question, and listen to the way you run on!
I didnt mean to nag.
She smiled.
But someone who studies the classics and knows the rules of propriety ought to aim high.
Then, when the one you love comes, shell be pleased and respect you.
This reminded Baoyu of something.
Botheration!
he exclaimed.
There was such a crowd with the old lady just now that I wasnt able to talk with Cousin Lin.
She paid me no attention either.
By the time I left, shed already gone.
She must be in her place now.
Ill drop in to see her.
With that he started out.
Dont be too long, said Xiren.
I shouldnt have said that, getting you all worked up.
Baoyu made no reply but went off with lowered head to Bamboo Lodge where Daiyu, bending over her desk, was reading.
He approached her with a smile.
Have you been back long?
You cut me, so why should I stay there?
She asked archly.
There were so many people talking, I couldnt get a word in.
Thats why I didnt speak to you.
He had been eyeing Daiyus book, but could not recognize the characters in it.
Some looked familiar, others were combinations of various radicals and numerals.
In puzzled surprise he observed, Youre getting more erudite, cousin, all the time, reading something so esoteric!
Daiyu burst out laughing.
What a scholar!
she teased.
Have you never seen a lute score before?
Of course I have.
But how come I dont know any of those characters there?
Do you understand them, cousin?
Would I read it if I didnt?
I dont believe you.
Ive never seen you playing a lute.
We have several hanging in our study.
The other year a scholar called, Ji Haogu I think his name was.
My father asked him to play, but when he took the lutes down he said none of them was any good and proposed, If you like, sir, Ill bring my own lute some day to play for you.
But he never turned up again, probably because my fathers no connoisseur.
Why have you been hiding this accomplishment from me?
Im no good at it really, she said.
The other day, feeling a bit better, I rummaged through the books on the big bookcase and found a set of lute scores which looked intriguing.
It gives a lucid account of musical theory and clear instructions for playing.
Luting was truly an art the men of old cultivated to achieve tranquility and integrity.
In Yangzhou, I heard it explained and learned to play, but then I gave up and that was the end of that.
As the saying goes, Three days without playing, and fingers become thumbs.
The other day when I read those scores, there were no words to the music, only titles.
Then I found a score somewhere else with words set to the music, which made it more interesting.
Its really hard to play well.
We read that when the musician Kuang played the lute, he could summon up wind and thunder, dragons and phoenixes.
Even the sage Confucius learned from the musician Xiang, and as soon as he played a piece he realized that this was King Wens music.
Then there was the musician who, playing of mountains and streams, met a man of true understanding...
Here her eyelashes fluttered and, slowly, she lowered her head.
By now Baoyus enthusiasm was aroused.
Dear cousin, how fascinating you make it sound!
he exclaimed.
But I cant read any of those characters.
Wont you teach me a few of them.
You dont have to be taught.
Once I explain, youll catch on.
Im a stupid fellow, so tell me what that character like big with a hook to it means, and the one that has a five in it.
Daiyu rejoined gaily, the one made up of big and nine means that you must thumb the ninth note of the lute.
The hook combined with five means that you must pluck the fifth string with your right hand.
Theyre not characters actually but musical signs, which are very easy to follow.
Then there are various methods of fingering Whirring, stroking, plucking, damping, tapping, sliding, gliding, pushing and so forth.
Baoyu was delighted.
Good cousin, since you understand all about it, why dont we learn to play the lute?
he proposed.
No, she said.
The men of old made music to induce self-restraint, curb passion, and suppress licence and extravagance.
So anyone wanting to play the lute should choose some quiet, lofty studio either in some attic among forests and rocks, or on the summit of a hill or the bank of a stream.
A fine, mild day should be chosen too, with a cool breeze and bright moon.
Then one should burn incense and sit quietly, ones mind a blank, ones breathing regular, to become one with the spirit world and the Way.
This is why the ancients said Hard to meet one who understands music.
When there are no understanding listeners, one should play to the cool breeze and bright moon, green pines and rugged rocks, wild monkeys and hoary cranes, conveying ones emotions in solitude so as not to do injustice to the lute.
Then again, good fingering and execution are needed.
Before playing one must dress fittingly in a loose cape or long robe like the men of old, to be worthy of this instrument of the sages.
This done, the hands should be washed, incense lit, and the lutist should sit lightly on the couch with the lute on his desk, its fifth note facing his heart.
Only then, when mind and body are well-regulated, can the two hands be raised slowly.
And whether soft or loud, fast or slow, the playing must be natural and dignified.
Were only learning for fun!
exclaimed Baoyu.
If youre so particular, itll be too hard.
While they were talking Zijuan had come in.
She smiled at the sight of Baoyu.
So youre in good spirits today, Master Bao!
she remarked.
My cousins conversation is so illuminating, I could never tire of listening, he told her.
Thats not what I meant, said the maid.
You must have been in good spirits today to come here.
While she was unwell, I was afraid to disturb her besides, I had to go to school.
Thats why I gave the impression of keeping away.... Miss Lins only just better, Zijuan interrupted.
As you know that, Master Bao, you should let her rest now and not wear her out.
I was so intent on listening, I forgot that she might be tired.
Its not tiring but fun to discuss such things, said Daiyu with a smile.
Im only afraid you may not understand.
Well, anyway, Ill get it clear gradually.
With that he stood up saying, Really youd better rest now.
Tomorrow Ill ask Tanchun and Xichun to learn to play the lute for me too.
Youre too spoilt!
chuckled Daiyu.
If we all learn to play but you dont understand, wont that be a case of playing a lute to an.... 1 Here she recollected herself and broke off.
So long as you can play, Ill be only too glad to listen, said Baoyu cheerfully.
I dont care if you think me an ox.
Daiyu blushed and smiled while Zijuan and Xueyan laughed.
Baoyu was on his way out when along came Qiuwen with a younger maid carrying a small pot of orchids.
Someone sent four pots of orchids to Her Ladyship.
she announced.
Theyre too busy to enjoy them, so Her Ladyship told us to take one pot to Master Bao, one to Miss Lin.
Daiyu saw that a few sprays had double blooms.
The sight stirred her, but whether with joy or with grief she did not know as she stared at them blankly.
Baoyus mind, however, was still set on the lute.
Now that you have these orchids, cousin, he said, you can play that tune The Orchid.
2 This remark upset Daiyu.
Going back to her room she gazed at the orchids, reflecting, In spring, plants put out fresh blooms and luxuriant leaves.
Im still young, yet already Im like a plant in late autumn.
If my wish comes true, I may gradually grow stronger.
If not, I fear Ill be like a fading flower how can I stand buffeting by rain and wind?
She could not hold back her tears.
Zijuan seeing this could not understand the reason.
She thought, Just now with Baoyu here she was so happy.
Why has looking at orchids made her sad again?
She was anxiously wondering how to comfort her mistress when a maid arrived with a message from Baochai.
To know what it was, read on.
Chapter 87 Moved by an Autumn Poem, a Lutist Mourns the Past One Practicing Yoga Is Possessed Through Lust Baochais maid, called in by Daiyu, presented her young ladys greetings and letter, then was sent off to have some tea.
Opening the letter, Daiyu found written there Born on an unlucky day in an ill-fated family, I have no sister and my mother is failing.
Day and night there is bickering and brawling here, on top of which fearful disasters have assailed us thick and fast.
At dead of night I toss and turn, overwhelmed by anxiety.
Surely you who understand me must sympathize with me?
I recall the Begonia Club we formed in autumn and how we enjoyed chrysanthemums and crabs in happy harmony.
When I remember those lines Proud recluse, with what hermit are you taking refuge?
All flowers must bloom, what makes you bloom so late?
I cannot but feel that the chrysanthemums old fragrance is like the two of us!
Moved by these thoughts I have scribbled out four stanzas.
Though simply an empty lament, they voice my distress.
1 -2290 Sad to see the passing of seasons, Cool autumn is here once more My family is ill-fated, Alone I dwell, my heart sore.
Day-lilies in the northern hall Cannot make me forget my cares.
With no means to banish grief, My heart despairs.
2 -2290 Low hang the clouds, The autumn wind makes moan I pace the court Through withered leaves turned roan.
Where can I go?
Lost, my past happiness.
Remembered joys But fill me with distress.
-3431 3 -2290 The sturgeon has its tarn, The crane its nest, One lurking within scales, One with long plumage dressed!
At my wits end I ask infinity High heaven, vast earth, Who knows my misery?
-3431 4 -2290 The Milky Way is twinkling, The atmosphere strikes chill The moon is sloping down the sky, The jade clepsydras still.
There is no sleep for aching hearts.
My grief I must impart Chanting again and yet again For one who knows my heart.
Daiyu after reading these lines was plunged in grief.
She reflected, The fact that Cousin Baochai didnt send these to anyone else, only to me, shows that we are kindred spirits.
She was lost in thought when someone outside called out, Is Cousin Lin at home?
Putting Baochais letter away she asked who was there, even as Tanchun, Xiangyun, Li Wen and Li Qi trooped in.
They exchanged greetings while Xueyan brought them tea, after which they chatted.
Remembering the poems they had written that year on chrysanthemums, Daiyu remarked Baochai came over twice after moving out, yet these days even when something happens she doesnt come.
Isnt that odd?
I wonder whether shell ever come back or not!
Why shouldnt she?
asked Tanchun with a smile.
Shes bound to eventually.... Just now, of course, she has too much to see to, what with her sister-in-laws cranky ways, aunty getting on in years, and on top of everything this trouble of Cousin Pans.
She hasnt the time to spare that she used to have.
Just then a gust of wind sprang up, dashing fallen leaves against the window paper.
By and by they smelt a faint fragrance.
Where does this scent come from?
they wondered.
What can it be?
Its like fragrant osmanthus, observed Daiyu.
Cousin Lin is talking like a southerner, teased Tanchun.
How could fragrant osmanthus bloom in the ninth month?
Quite so.
Daiyu laughed.
Thats why I said its like fragrant osmanthus.
Youd better pipe down, Tanchun.
put in Xiangyun.
Dont you remember the lines -763 Ten li of lotus blooms.
And in late autumn fragrant osmanthus seeds.
This is the season for it to blossom down south, only youve never seen it.
When you go south in future, youll find out.
Why should I go south?
asked Tanchun.
Besides, I knew that without your telling me.
Li Wen and Li Qi said nothing, only smiled.
Dont be so sure about that, cousin, said Daiyu.
As the saying goes, Man is a wanderer, here today but gone tomorrow.
For example, how did I get here, when Im a southerner?
Xiangyun clapped her hands and laughed.
Today Cousin Lins floored Cousin Tanchun!
she crowed.
Not only is Daiyu here from the south, the rest of us come from different places too.
Some are northerners, others were born in the south and brought up in the north, still others were brought up in the south and then came north.
Our coming together now in one place shows that everyones fate is fixed.
Each individual is destined for different places.
The others nodded approval while Tanchun merely smiled.
And after more casual talk the visitors left.
When Daiyu saw them to the door they said, Youve only just got a bit better, dont come out.
We dont want you to catch cold.
She stood in the doorway exchanging civilities with them until they left the compound, then went back to her room and sat down.
It was sunset now, birds were winging back to the hills.
And Xiangyuns talk about the south filled Daiyus mind with fancies.
If my parents were still alive.., the south with spring flowers and autumn moonlight, limpid streams and lucent hills, Yangzhous twenty-four bridges and Six Dynasties relics.., no lack of maids to wait on me, and freedom to do as I pleased without worrying... a scented carriage and a painted barge, the red apricots and green signs of country taverns, my own mistress, respected by all.... Now, living with another family, although they treat me so well I have to watch my step all the time.... What sins did I commit in my last life to be so wretched now?
In the words of the deposed king of Southern Tang, 1 Here I can only bathe my face in tears every day.... She lost herself in these reflections.
Zijuan coming back supposed that her melancholy had been induced by the talk about south and north which Daiyu had taken to heart.
The young ladies were here so long chatting, you must be tired, miss, she said.
I just told Xueyan to get the kitchen to prepare you a bowl of cabbage soup with ham and dried shrimps, as well as some bamboo shoots and layer in it.
Is that all right?
It will do.
Therell be congee too.
Daiyu nodded, then said, Id like you two to cook it, not leave it to the kitchen.
Yes, we will, Zijuan assured her.
I was afraid, too, that the kitchen wouldnt be clean enough.
As for the soup, I asked Xueyan to tell Mrs. Liu that it must be very clean.
And Mrs. Liu said shed get together the ingredients, then ask their Wuer to cook it on the small stove in their own room.
Its not that I think them dirty, said Daiyu.
But all this time Ive been unwell Ive had to depend on them for everything.
So now they may resent these special instructions about soup and congee.
Her eyes brimmed with tears again.
Dont go imagining things, miss, urged Zijuan.
Youre the old ladys grand-daughter and she dotes on you.
Theyre only too glad of a chance to please you.
How can they possibly complain?
Daiyu nodded.
Then she asked, That Wuer you mentioned just now, isnt she the girl who was with Fangguan in Master Baos place?
Thats the one.
Didnt I hear say shed be coming to work in the Garden?
Yes, miss.
But she fell ill, and when she got over it and was to come, there was all that trouble over Qingwen and the rest, and so it got delayed.
She looked to me a neat girl, Daiyu said.
Now a serving-woman outside delivered the soup, Xueyan went out to fetch it.
The woman reported, Mrs. Liu says to tell your young lady that this was prepared by her Wuer.
She didnt dare have it prepared in the big kitchen for fear your young lady might think it not clean enough.
Xueyan voiced approval and brought the soup in.
Daiyu, who had heard this exchange, made Xueyan tell the woman to thank them for their trouble, after which the latter left.
Then Xueyan set Daiyus bowl and chopsticks on the small table.
Weve those five-spice pickles from the south too, she said.
Would you like some with sesame oil and vinegar?
All right, if its not too much trouble.
When the congee was served, Daiyu ate half a bowl and two spoonfuls of the soup, but then gave up.
Two maids cleared and wiped the table, took it away, then brought in the small table which she liked to use.
Daiyu, having rinsed her mouth and washed her hands, asked Zijuan, Have you added fresh incense?
Ill do it now, miss.
You two may as well finish up the congee and soup they taste quite good and theyre clean.
Ill see to the incense myself.
The two maids agreed and sat down to supper in the outer room.
After adding fresh incense, Daiyu settled down to read when a west wind sprang up and set all the trees rustling.
Presently the iron chimes swinging from the eaves raised a loud tinkling too.
Xueyan, her supper finished, now came back.
Its grown cold, Daiyu told her.
Have you aired my fur clothes, as I asked you the other day?
Yes, all of them.
Bring me something to put over my shoulders.
Xueyan fetched in a bundle of fur-lined clothes and unwrapped it for Daiyu to make her choice.
The first thing her eye fell on was a silk wrapper.
Undoing this, she found the old handkerchiefs Baoyu had sent her when he was ill, on which she had written poems they still had her tear-stains on them.
Wrapped inside were the scented pouch which she had cut up, a fan-case and the tassel from Baoyus Jade of Spiritual Understanding.
These had been in the chest when it was opened to sun the clothes, and Zijuan for fear that they might get mislaid had put them in the bundle.
The sight of these things made Daiyu forget about putting on something warmer.
She picked up the two handkerchiefs and gazed blankly at her old poems, then started weeping.
Zijuan coming in now saw Xueyan standing there stock-still, holding a felt wrapper of clothes.
The mutilated pouch, the fan-case in two or three pieces and the snipped off tassel were on the little table and Daiyu, clutching two old handkerchiefs with writing on them, was gazing at them in tears.
Truly -763 When the sad meet with sadness, New tears mingle with the old!
Zijuan realized that these things had reopened old wounds, making her young mistress grieve over the past, and guessed it would be useless to reason with her.
Why look at those, miss?
she asked, smiling.
Theyll only remind you of the pranks Master Bao and you got up to when you were young, quarrelling one day and making it up the next.
If hed been as well-mannered then as he is now, these things would never have got spoilt.
To Zijuans surprise, this banter reminded Daiyu even more of her first years here.
Big tears streamed down her cheeks.
Xueyans standing waiting, Zijuan reminded her.
Do put on something warmer.
Then at last Daiyu put down the handkerchiefs.
Zijuan promptly picked them up to wrap them up with the pouch and other things and whisk them away.
Daiyu, draping a fur-lined jacket over her shoulders, went disconsolately to the outer room to sit down.
Turning her head she noticed that she had not yet put away Baochais poems.
She picked them up, reread them twice, then sighed Though our positions are different, were one in our distress.
I may as well write four verses too and set them to music, to sing them to a lute accompaniment.
Tomorrow Ill copy them out and send them to her by way of reply.
She told Xueyan to fetch the brush and ink-stone from her desk, then wrote four stanzas, after which she got out the lute scores and set her verses to the melodies Quiet Orchid and Longing for a Worthy Man.
She made a copy to send to Baochai, then told Xueyan to fetch from the chest the short lute she had brought north with her.
Having tuned the strings she practised some finger exercises.
And as Daiyu was so intelligent and had learned to play a little in the south, although out of practice she soon regained her old skill.
She played until it was late ,then called Zijuan in to clear up and went to bed.
To return to Baoyu.
He got up and dressed the next morning and was on his way to school with Beiming when Moyu came running towards them, grinning from ear to ear.
Master Bao, youve got off cheap today!
cried Moyu.
The tutors not at school its a holiday.
Is that true?
demanded Baoyu.
If you dont believe me, look!
Cant you see Master Huan and Master Lan coming?
Sure enough, Baoyu saw the two boys accompanied by their pages laughing and chatting together as they approached.
At sight of him they stood at respectful attention.
Why are you coming back?
he asked.
Huan answered, The tutor has some business today, so hes given us one days holiday.
Were to go back tomorrow.
Baoyu went to report this to his grandmother and father, then returned to Happy Red Court.
Why are you back?
asked Xiren.
He told her the reason, and after sitting down for a short time started out.
Where are you off to?
she wanted to know.
Whats the hurry?
Youve just been given a day off.
I advise you to have a rest.
He halted then with lowered head and said, Youre right, of course.
But its so seldom I get a free day, why shouldnt I have some fun?
Do have a heart!
He looked so pathetic that Xiren chuckled, All right, go wherever you like, sir!
Just then lunch was served, however, and Baoyu had to eat.
But after gobbling his food and rinsing his mouth he dashed off to find Daiyu.
When he reached her gate, he saw Xueyan hanging out some handkerchiefs in the courtyard.
Has your mistress had her meal?
he asked.
She had half a bowl of congee in the morning, but didnt want any lunch.
Shes taking a nap now.
Youd better come back later, Master Bao.
Baoyu had to turn back.
He did not know where to go until it occurred to him that he had not seen Xichun for several days so he strolled over to Smartweed Breeze Cot.
Stopping outside her window, he discovered that all was quiet and thought he had better not enter as she must be having a siesta too.
He was on the point of leaving when he heard a faint sound inside, but could not make out what it was.
He stopped to listen, and after some time heard a chinking sound.
Still he could not make out what it was.
If you move that piece here, said a voice inside, what about your position there?
At that he realized they were playing draughts, but could not identify the voice.
Then he heard Xichun say, What do I care?
If you take that piece of mine, Ill move here.
If you take this piece, Ill move there.
I shall still be able to encircle that place in the end.
What if I do this?
asked the other.
Ah!
exclaimed Xichun.
I didnt guard against a thrust like that!
The second voice sounded familiar, but Baoyu knew it was not one of his cousins.
Assuming that the other player could not be an outsider, he softly raised the portiere and went in, only to discover that the visitor was no other than the outsider Miaoyu of Green Lattice Nunnery.
Seeing this, he dared not disturb them and the two girls, intent on their game, did not notice him.
Baoyu stood beside them watching.
Miaoyu, her head lowered, asked, Dont you want this corner?
Of course I do, said Xichun.
But your pieces there are all dead, so what have I to fear?
Dont be so sure, said Miaoyu.
Wait and see.
Ill attack here and see what you can do.
Miaoyu, smiling, linked her pieces in one continuous border and counterattacked, threatening Xichuns corner.
This is called pulling off the boot, she chuckled.
Before Xichun could reply Baoyu burst out laughing, making the two girls start.
Why do such a thing?
exclaimed Xichun.
Coming in without a word to startle us!
How long have you been there?
Quite a while.
Ive been watching you fight for that corner.
He greeted Miaoyu and said to her with a smile, Its rarely that you leave your saintly abode.
Why have you descended today to the mundane world?
Miaoyu flushed up but said nothing, lowering her head to keep her eyes on the board.
Conscious of his gaffe, Baoyu tried to cover it up.
You who have renounced the world are not like us vulgar worldlings, he said with a conciliatory smile.
First of all, your hearts are at peace, so you are more spiritual and have quiet perception....
He was running on like this when Miaoyu glanced up at him, then lowered her head again, blushing furiously.
Baoyu, cold-shouldered like this, sat down sheepishly at one side.
Xichun wanted to finish the game, but after a while Miaoyu said, Lets play some other time.
She stood up to smooth down her clothes, but then sat down again and asked Baoyu fatuously, Where did you come from?
He had been waiting for her to address him so that he could make up for his earlier tactlessness.
However, it occurred to him that she might be testing his understanding.
He reddened and could not answer.
With a faint smile Miaoyu turned to talk to Xichun.
Is that so hard to answer, Second Brother?
chuckled Xichun.
Have you never heard the saying, I came from where Ive been?
Why blush like that as if she were a stranger?
Miaoyu took this dig personally.
Her heart misgave her and her cheeks burned she knew she must be red in the face too.
In her embarrassment she stood up and said, Ive been here so long, I must be getting back to my nunnery.
As Xichun knew her ways, instead of pressing her to stay she saw her to the door.
Its so long since last I was here, said Miaoyu, I may not be able to find my way back with all those twists and turns.
Why not let me show you the way?
Baoyu volunteered.
Thank you, sir.
Please lead on!
Taking their leave of Xichun, they left Smartweed Breeze Cot and followed a winding path which took them near Bamboo Lodge.
Suddenly they heard a twanging.
Where does that luting come from?
Miaoyu asked.
It must be Cousin Lin playing the lute.
Can she play too?
Why did she never mention it?
Baoyu repeated what Daiyu had said to him.
Lets call on her, he proposed.
One can only listen to luting, not look at it thats always been the rule, she objected.
Im a vulgar person, I know, he said with a grin.
Being outside Bamboo Lodge now, they seated themselves on an artificial hill to listen quietly to the clear music.
Daiyu was chanting softly The wind is soughing, the days drawing in, Far away, lost in thought, the lovely maid I gaze towards my homewhere is it?
Tears stain my dress beside the balustrade.
After a pause she continued Far-stretching hills, long rivers, Bright moonlight shining on my window-sill Sleepless I lie beneath faint Milky Way, Clad in thin silk the wind and dew are chill.
As she paused again, Miaoyu remarked, The first stanza used the qin rhyme, the second the yang rhyme.
Lets hear what follows.
Then they heard fresh chanting inside Your lot is not of your choosing, And mine is filled with care You and I are kindred spirits, Revering the ancients that we may not err.
Miaoyu commented, Another stanza, but how mournful!
Though I dont understand music, it does sound too sad, Baoyu agreed.
Inside, they heard the strings being returned.
The main string is too high!
Miaoyu exclaimed.
It may not fit that scale.
Inside, Daiyu resumed Life in this world is but a speck of dust, Karma ordains all mortals destiny If Karma rules, then why repine?
Would that my heart were pure as the moon in the sky!
The colour draining from her face Miaoyu exclaimed, Why did she suddenly play such a high note?
Its enough to crack metal or stone!
This is too extreme.
What do you mean?
I doubt if she can keep it up.
Even as she said this, they heard the main string snap.
Miaoyu stood up and hastily started off.
Whats the matter?
Baoyu asked.
Youll know later dont talk about it.
With that she left, and Baoyu went back to Happy Red Court feeling puzzled and depressed.
Miaoyu returned to the nunnery, and the old deaconess waiting for her there closed the gate.
She sat down for a while to chant the sutra for the day, and after supper burned incense and worshipped Buddha.
This done, she dismissed the deaconess for the night.
As her couch and back-rest were ready, she quietly let down the curtain and sat cross-legged to meditate, banishing all frivolous thoughts to concentrate on the truth.
Some time after midnight, she heard a thud on the roof.
Suspecting a thief, she left her couch and went out to the veranda.
She saw cloud streamers in the sky and moonlight limpid as water.
As it was not yet too cold, she stood there alone for a while by the balustrade till a sudden caterwauling broke out on the roof.
Abruptly recalling Baoyus remarks that day, her heart started beating faster and her face burned.
Hastily suppressing her feelings, she returned to her cell and sat down again on the couch.
But her fancy, now running as wild as galloping horses, made her imagine that the couch was rocking and she was no longer in the nunnery.
Many young lordlings had come to ask for her hand and, against her wishes, go-betweens were tugging and pushing her into a carriage.
Then brigands kidnapped her and threatened her with swords and clubs, so that she screamed for help.
This aroused the novices and deaconess, who came with torches to see what was the matter.
Finding Miaoyu with outflung arms, frothing at the mouth, they hastily woke her up.
Her eyes staring, crimson in the face, she shouted, How dare you thugs attack one under Buddhas protection!
Frightened out of their wits they assured her, Its us!
Wake up!
I want to go home, she cried.
If theres any kind soul among you, take me back!
Youre here in your own cell, said the deaconess, then told the novices to pray to Guanyin and ask for an oracle.
They opened the book of oracles at a passage indicating that she had offended a spirit in the southwest corner.
Thats right!
one of them exclaimed.
No one lives in the southwest corner of Grand View Garden, so there are bound to be evil spirits there.
They busied themselves getting soup for her and boiled water.
And the novice who took the best care of Miaoyu, being a southerner herself, sat on the couch and put one arm around her.
Miaoyu turned to her and demanded, Who are you?
Dont you know me?
Miaoyu looked more carefully.
So its you!
she cried, hugging the novice to her.
If you dont save me, mother, she sobbed, Im done for!
The novice tried to bring her to her senses.
She massaged her while the deaconess brought tea, and not till dawn did Miaoyu fall asleep.
They sent for doctors then.
One diagnosed her trouble as debility of the spleen brought on by worry one attributed it to a hot humour in the blood another to offending evil spirits and yet another diagnosed a chill.
They could not reach agreement.
Later they called in another doctor who after examining the patient asked, Did she practise yoga?
Yes, every night, answered the deaconess.
Was this a sudden fit last night?
Thats right.
Then it came on because evil thoughts crossed her mind and kindled a hot humour.
Is it dangerous?
It can be cured, as luckily she did not meditate very long, so the evil did not penetrate too deep.
He prescribed some medicine to alleviate the hot humour in her heart, and after taking it Miaoyu felt some relief.
When young dandies heard this story, they spread all manner of rumours and commented, Shes too young romantic and intelligent too to stand such an austere life.
Who knows what lucky man will get hold of her in future?
After a few days, although Miaoyu felt better, she was still not back to normal, her mind remaining confused.
One day, Xichun was sitting quietly when Caiping came in to ask, Do you know, miss, what happened to Sister Miaoyu?
No.
What?
I heard Miss Xing and Madam Zhu discussing it yesterday.
The night after she went back from playing chess with you, some evil spirit took possession of her, and she started raving that bandits had come to kidnap her!
Even now she hasnt recovered.
Isnt that extraordinary?
Xichun remained silent, thinking, Though Miaoyu is so chaste, shes not severed all earthly ties yet.
Its too bad that I live in a family like this and cant become a nun.
If I renounced the world, how could evil thoughts assail me?
Not one would cross my mind all desires would be stilled!
Then, suddenly struck by an idea, she chanted -763 In the beginning Creation had no abode Where, then, should we abide?
Since we come from the void We should return to the void.
She told a maid to burn incense and sat quietly for a while, then looked up the treatises on draughts by Kong Rong, 2 Wang Jixin 3 and others.
After reading a few pages, she was not impressed by such gambits as thick foliage enfolds crabs and yellow hawks seize a hare, while the thirty-six ways to enclose a corner struck her as too hard to remember.
She was intrigued, however, by ten galloping dragons and was thinking this over when someone entered her compound calling Caiping!
If you want to know who it was, read the following chapter.
Chapter 88 Baoyu, to Please His Grandmother, Praises a Fatherless Boy Jia Zhen, to Uphold Household Discipline, Has Unruly Servants Whipped As Xichun was studying the treatise on draughts, she heard Caipings name called in the courtyard and recognized Yuanyangs voice.
Caiping went out to usher in Yuanyang, who had brought a young maid carrying a small yellow silk bundle.
What brings you here?
asked Xichun with a smile.
The old lady will be eighty-one next year, miss.
As thats nine times nine, shes going to offer sacrifices for nine days and nine nights, and shes vowed to have three thousand six hundred and fifty-one copies of the Diamond Sutra made.
This work has been given to copyists outside.
But as people say this sutra, like Taoist canons, is only the shell of truth whereas the Prajnaparamitra Sutra is the kernel, this second sutra must be included as well to make the offering more meritorious.
Since the Prajnaparamitra Sutra is the more important, and Guanyin is a female bodhisattva, the old lady wants some mistresses and young ladies of the family to make three hundred and sixty-five copies of it, as an act of reverence.
In our family except for Madam Lian whos too busy with household affairs and, besides, cant write all the ladies are going to write copies, some more, some less.
Even Madam Zhen and the concubines of the East Mansion will be doing their share.
So of course all the ladies over here must join in.
Xichun nodded.
Other tasks may be beyond me, but Ive every confidence when it comes to copying sutras.
Just put your things down, and now have some tea.
Yuanyang placed the little bundle on the table and sat down with her.
Caiping brought them tea.
Will you do some copying too?
Xichun asked Yuanyang.
You must be joking, miss!
In the past I might have managed, but these last three or four years have you ever seen me with a brush in my hand?
Still, it would be a meritorious deed.
Well, Im doing something else.
Every night after helping the old lady to bed, I pray to Buddha and set aside a grain of rice for each time I invoke his name.
Ive been doing that for more than three years, and saved the rice.
When the old lady makes her sacrifice, I shall add my rice to it for alms as an offering to Buddha, to show my devotion.
In that case, joked Xichun, when the old lady becomes Guanyin youll be her Dragon Maid.
1 How could I aspire to that?
Its true, though, that its the old lady and nobody else that I want to serve.
I dont know if this was predestined!
Making ready to go, she told the little maid to unwrap the bundle and take out its contents.
This stack of paper is for copying the sutra.
And this she held up a bundle of Tibetan incense is for you to light while copying.
Xichun agreed to this.
Yuanyang, leaving her, went back with the little maid to make her report to the Lady Dowager.
Finding her playing shuanglu 2 with Li Wan, she stood and watched.
Li Wan made some lucky throws and captured several of the old ladys pieces, at which Yuanyang inwardly chuckled.
Then in came Baoyu with two miniature cages made of thin bamboo splints, containing green crickets.
I heard youre not sleeping well at night, madam, he said.
So Ill leave you these to amuse you.
Dont go fooling around now your fathers away!
she warned him with a smile.
I havent been fooling around.
If you havent been playing truant from school, how did you get hold of these?
I didnt get them myself.
This morning, our teacher set Huan and Lan some couplets to write.
Huan couldnt do them, so I secretly helped him.
When he recited them the teacher was pleased and commended him.
He bought these for me to show his gratitude.
Thats why Im making you a present of them.
Doesnt he study every day?
Why cant he write a couplet?
If he cant, your Grandad Ru should slap his face to shame him!
Youre bad enough yourself.
Remember , when your father was at home, how devilish scared you were every time he made you write poems.
But now youre bragging again.
Of course, Huan is even worse, getting other people to do his work for him, then thinking up ways to bribe them.
A child of his age up to such dirty tricks, and with no sense of shame either!
What sort of creature will he grow up to be?
Everyone in the room burst out laughing.
What about young Lan?
the old lady asked.
Did he manage to write the couplets?
Or did Huan do them for hi 1 n, as Lans smaller?
No, said Baoyu with a smile.
Lan did them himself.
I dont believe you.
You must have been up to more monkey business.
Youre getting above yourself nowadays a camel in a flock of sheep being the eldest and the one who can write!
He really wrote them himself, insisted Baoyu, smiling.
And our teacher praised him, saying hell go far in future.
If you dont believe me, madam, you can send for him and test him yourself then youll know.
Well, if thats truly the case Im very glad.
I was just afraid you were fibbing.
If hes up to writing couplets, the boy should get somewhere in future.
Her eye fell on Li Wan, reminding her of Jia Zhu.
That means your sister-in-law hasnt brought him up in vain since your brother Zhu died.
Hell become the mainstay of the house some day in place of his father.
She could not refrain from tears.
Li Wan was very moved too, but held back her own tears to comfort the old lady.
This is all owing to the virtue of our Old Ancestress, she said with a smile.
We all benefit from your good fortune.
If he lives up to your expectations, madam, how lucky we shall be!
You should be pleased, Old Ancestress, not sad.
She turned to tell Baoyu, You mustnt praise your nephew like that in future.
What does a child of his age understand?
I know you just meant to be kind, but he has no sense.
If he gets conceited and cocky, he wont make any progress.
Quite right, the old lady agreed.
Still, hes too small to be driven too hard.
A little boy is timid.
If you force him too hard his health may suffer and he wont be able to study.
Then all your efforts would be wasted.
At this, Li Wan could no longer restrain herself.
Tears streamed down her cheeks, and she hastily wiped her eyes.
Jia Huan and Jia Lan now came in to pay their respects to the old lady.
Lan greeted his mother too, after which he came over and stood at attention beside his great-grandmother.
Just now, she said, I heard from your uncle that your teacher commended you for writing a good couplet.
Lan said nothing, only smiled.
Then Yuanyang came to announce that dinner was ready.
Ask Aunt Xue to come over, ordered the old lady.
Hupo sent to Lady Wangs place to deliver this message.
Baoyu and Huan withdrew then while Suyun and some young maids cleared away the dice game.
Li Wan stayed to wait on the old lady, and Lan remained by his mother.
You two had better eat with me, said the old lady.
Li Wan assented, and the table was laid.
Then a maid came in to announce, Her Ladyship told me to report that Madam Xue has been shuttling back and forth these days and cant come to see you today, madam, because after lunch she went home.
Thereupon the old lady made Lan sit beside her.
Dinner at an end, the old lady washed and rinsed her mouth, then lay down on the couch.
They were chatting together when a young maid came in and whispered to Hupo.
The latter reported to the Lady Dowager Master Zhen of the East Mansion has come to pay his respects.
Tell him not to trouble, and thank him.
As he must be tired out with family business, he should go and rest.
This message passed on by a maid to the serving-woman outside was relayed to Jia Zhen, who withdrew.
The next day, Jia Zhen came over to attend to certain business.
Servants at the gate reported on several matters, one of them announcing, The bailiff of our farm has brought some produce.
Wheres the list?
demanded Jia Zhen.
The man presented it, and he saw that it comprised simply fresh fruits, vegetables, game and the like.
Which is the steward in charge of these things?
he asked.
One of the gate-keepers replied, Zhou Rui.
Then Jia Zhen ordered Zhou Rui, Check the list and take the produce inside.
Ill have a copy of the list made later, to see that the accounts tally.
Tell the kitchen to add a few dishes to the lowest-grade meal of the fellow who brought these things, and tip him according to the usual practice.
Zhou Rui assented and had the things delivered to Xifengs compound.
After handing over the list and the produce he left.
Before long he returned to ask Jia Zhen, Have you checked the amounts of the things that just arrived, sir?
What time do I have?
I gave you the list to check.
I have, sir.
Theres nothing short, and of course nothing extra.
As youve kept a copy, sir, please call the messenger in to ask whether this is the genuine list or faked.
What are you driving at?
Only a little fruit, what does it matter?
And Im not doubting your word.
Just at this point, Bao Er came in and kowtowed.
Please, sir, let me go back to working outside, he requested.
What have the two of you been up to now?
demanded Jia Zhen.
I cant speak out here, said Bao Er.
Whos asking you to speak?
Why should I stay here getting in peoples way?
Zhou Rui cut in, I handle the rents and the income and expenditure of the farm a matter of three to five hundred thousand a year and the master and mistresses have never found fault, not to say over a few trifles like these.
Yet, judging by Bao Er, weve eaten up all our masters farms and properties!
It was clear to Jia Zhen that Bao Er had been making trouble and he had better dismiss him.
Clear off, quick!
he ordered, then turned to Zhou Rui.
You neednt say any more either.
Go and attend to your business.
Then the two men went away.
Jia Zhen was relaxing in his study when he heard a great uproar at the gate.
He sent to find out what had happened and the gate-keepers reported Bao Er is fighting with Zhou Ruis adopted son.
And who may that be?
he asked.
A rascal called He San, who gets drunk and brawls every day at home and often comes to sit at our gate.
When he heard Bao Er scrapping with Zhou Rui he joined in.
Outrageous!
swore Jia Zhen.
Have Bao Er and that fellow He San tied up.
Where is Zhou Rui?
When they started fighting, he slipped away.
Bring him here!
This is the limit!
The servants assented.
In the midst of this commotion Jia Lian came back and his cousin described what had happened.
Scandalous!
exclaimed Jia Lian.
He sent more servants in search of Zhou Rui, who came, knowing he was in for it.
Tie them all up!
Jia Zhen ordered.
Jia Lian fumed at Zhou Rui, Your earlier dispute could have been overlooked, and the master had already dismissed you both.
Why start another fight outside?
The two of you fighting was bad enough, but you dragged in that bastard He San as well to make trouble.
And instead of checking them, you cleared off!
He gave Zhou Rui several kicks.
Just beating Zhou Rui is not enough, said Jia Zhen.
He ordered his men to give Bao Er and He San fifty lashes apiece, then drive them out, after which he and Jia Lian discussed other business.
The servants, in private, aired different views about this.
Some said Jia Zhen was biased, unable to settle disputes, others that he was a debauchee.
Earlier on, when the You sisters were carrying on in that shameless way, wasnt it he who persuaded Master Lian to take Bao Er on?
one pointed out.
Now it must be because hes lost interest in Bao Ers wife that hes found fault with Bao Er.
Thus they argued the matter at length.
Now Jia Zhengs post in the Ministry of Works enabled his domestics to enrich themselves.
And ha Yun, getting wind of this, hoped to procure some lucrative job himself.
He approached contractors outside, and after coming to terms with them bought some fashionable embroidery with which to persuade Xifeng to secure him a commission.
Xifeng, at home, heard from the maids that Jia Zhen and her husband, angry with some of the servants, were having them beaten.
She was about to send to find out what had happened, when Jia Lian came in and told her the whole story.
Its a small matter in itself, was Xifengs comment, but well have to put a stop to such behaviour.
Our family still counts as enjoying good fortune, but even so these underlings dare fight!
Later on, when the younger generation takes over, theyll get quite out of hand.
The other year, in the East Mansion, I saw Jiao Da lying as drunk as a lord at the foot of the steps cursing wildly.
Swearing at high and low he was, quite regardless!
He may have served his first master well, but still hes only a servant and ought to show some respect.
Your Cousin Zhens wife if you dont mind my saying so is so easy-going that all her staff are spoilt and quite above themselves.
And now theres this fellow Bao Er!
I understood that he was a favourite with you and your Cousin Zhen, so why did you beat him today?
Embarrassed by this question, Jia Lian sheepishly changed the subject, then left her on the pretext that he had business.
Xiaohong came in next to report that ha Yun was outside asking to see her.
Invite him in, said Xifeng, wondering why he had come.
Hongyu went out and smiled at Jia Yun, who hastily stepped closer.
Did you give her my message, miss?
he asked.
Blushing she said, You seem to have a lot of business, sir!
How often have I troubled you before?
he protested.
Only once, the other year when you were in Uncle Baos place.... For fear of detection she cut him short by asking, Did you see the handkerchief I left you that time, sir?
Jia Yun was overjoyed by this question.
But before he could answer a young maid came out, and he and Hongyu hurried towards the house, walking side by side, not keeping their distance from each other.
When I come out presently, whispered Jia Yun, I want you to see me out, Ive something amusing to tell you.
Hongyu blushed and glanced at him, but did not answer.
When they reached Xifengs room, she went in first to announce him, then came out again and raised the portiere.
She beckoned him in, but said deliberately, Madam Lian asks you to come in, Master Yun.
Smiling, he followed her into the room and paid his respects to Xifeng.
My mother sends her greetings, he added.
Xifeng inquired after his mother too, then asked, What can I do for you?
Ive never forgotten your past goodness to me, aunt, and have always wished I could show my gratitude.
Only I was afraid you might suspect I had ulterior motives.
Now Ive brought you a little gift for the Double-Ninth Festival.
Of course you lack for nothing here, but this is just to show your nephews respect.
I only hope youll condescend to accept it.
Xifeng smiled.
Sit down if you have something to say.
Jia Yun perched on the edge of a chair, hastily placing his present on the table beside him.
Youre not all that well off, said Xifeng.
Why waste money on this?
And I dont need such things.
So tell me honestly what youve come here for.
I didnt have anything special in mind, just wanted to show how I appreciate your kindness to me, aunt, he said with a smirk.
Thats no way to talk, she answered.
Youre badly off, I know that perfectly well so why should you spend money on me for nothing?
If you want me to accept this, you must tell me your reason clearly.
If you beat about the bush like this, I wont take it.
Jia Yun had no choice but to come out with the truth.
Standing up with an obsequious smile he said, Well, its not too high-flown, what Im hoping.
The other day I heard that Lord Zheng was in charge of the construction of the Imperial Sepulchres.
I have several friends who have done work of this kind and are most reliable so please, aunt, will you recommend us to the master?
If you get us a couple of contracts, Ill be eternally grateful!
And if you need me for anything at home, Ill serve you to the best of my ability.
On other matters I have some say, she replied.
But these government jobs are fixed by officials above and seen to by the secretaries and runners under them, so that other people can hardly get a look-in.
Even our servants only go along to wait on the master.
Your uncle Lian too only goes there in connection with family business he cant interfere with public works.
As for our family affairs, as soon as one troubles settled another crops up.
Not even Master Zhen can keep order here.
So how could you, young as you are and junior in status, possibly cope with these people?
Besides, those cushy government jobs are nearly finished theyre simply spinning them out.
Cant you make do by finding other commissions at home?
This is honest advice.
Go back and think it over and youll see that.
I appreciate your offer, but take these things back and return them to whomever you got them from.
bust then in came some nannies with little Qiaojie, tricked out in embroidered silks, her arms filled with toys.
She went up to her mother, smiling, to prattle to her.
At once Jia Yun sprang to his feet.
Beaming, he asked, Is this my younger sister?
Do you want something nice?
The child burst out crying, and he quickly stepped back.
Dont be frightened, darling, said Xifeng, taking Qiaojie on her lap.
This is your big Cousin Yun.
Why be shy?
What a pretty child!
he exclaimed.
Shes another whos destined to enjoy great good fortune.
Qiaojie turned to look at him, then started crying again.
When this had happened several times, Jia Yun saw that it was impossible to stay and got up to take his leave.
Take those things with you, Xifeng reminded him.
Theyre only trifles, aunt.
Wont you do me the honour of accepting them?
If you wont take them, Ill have them sent back to your place.
Dont behave this way, Yun.
Its not as if you were an outsider.
When theres some opening Ill certainly send for you but if theres none, what can I do about it?
These things are quite superfluous.
Seeing her so adamant he reddened and said, In that case, aunt, Ill look for something more acceptable to show my respect.
-378 Xifeng told Hongyu, Take those things and see Master Yun out.
Jia Yun left thinking to himself, People call her a martinet, and she certainly is one!
Theres no chink in her armour shes as hard as nails.
No wonder shes never had a son.
And this Qiaojie is even odder, treating me as if wed been enemies in some past life.
Im really out of luck all this trouble for nothing!
As Jia Yun had been rebuffed, Hongyu was upset too as she followed him out.
Jia Yun took the bundle from her and unwrapped it, then chose two pieces of embroidery to slip to her.
But Hongyu thrust them back.
Dont, sir!
she said.
If the mistress knew, it would look bad for both of us.
Just take them.
What is there to be afraid of?
How could she possibly know?
If you refuse, that means you look down on me.
Hongyu accepted them with a smile but said, Why should I want these things of yours?
What is this anyway?
She blushed crimson again.
Its the thought that counts, he chuckled.
Besides, these arent worth much.
They had now reached the compound gate, and Jia Yun tucked the rest of the embroidery inside his jacket while Hongyu urged him to leave.
If theres anything you want, just come and ask me, she said.
Now that Im working here its easy to find me.
Jia Yun nodded.
Its too bad your mistress is such a martinet that I cant call too often.
Anyway you must understand what I meant just now.
Ive something more to tell you when I have the chance.
Blushing all over her face she answered, Go now.
You must call more often in future.
You shouldnt have kept at such a distance from her.
Right.
Then Jia Yun left the compound.
Hongyu stood at the gate watching till he was out of sight before finally turning back.
Xifeng in her room now ordered dinner and asked the maids if they had prepared any congee.
Some went to ask, returning with the answer, Yes, we have.
Get a couple of southern dishes preserved in liquor.
Very good, madam, said Qiutong, and sent some young maids for these.
Pinger now stepped forward and said, It had slipped my mind, but at noon today while you were with the old lady, the abbess of Water Moon Convent sent a nun to ask for two jars of southern pickles, madam.
She wants a few months allowance advanced too, because she isnt well.
I asked the nun what was wrong, and she said the abbess has been unwell for four or five days.
The other night some acolytes and novices refused to blow out the light when they went to bed.
She scolded them several times, but they paid no attention.
When she saw that the lamp was still burning after midnight, she told them to blow it out but as they were all asleep no one answered, so she had to get up herself to put it out.
When she went back to her room, she saw a man and a woman sitting on the kang.
And when she asked who they were, they fastened a rope round her neck!
She screamed for help.
That roused the others who lit lamps and hurried over.
They found her lying on the ground, foaming at the mouth.
Luckily they managed to bring her round.
But she still has no appetite thats why she asked for the pickles.
As I couldnt give her any in your absence, I told the nun you were busy with the old lady and I would tell you after you came back.
Then I sent her away.
bust now that talk about preserves from the south reminded me otherwise Id have forgotten.
Xifeng digested this in silence.
We still have some of those preserves from the south, dont we?
she said.
Send her some.
As for the money, tell Master Qin to come in a day or so to take it.
Then Hongyu came and reported, Just now Master Lian sent a messenger to let you know that he has business to see to outside town and wont be back tonight.
Very well, said Xifeng.
bust then they heard a young maid screaming at the back and come panting to the courtyard.
Pinger, going out to investigate, found several maids chattering there.
Whats all the excitement?
Xifeng called out.
Pinger, returning, told her, One girl whos scary was talking about ghosts.
Which one?
The girl came in and was asked, Whats this about ghosts?
I went just now to the back to get a servant to put more coal on the stove, and I heard a scuffling in those three empty rooms.
First I thought it was a cat chasing rats, but then I heard a sound like someone sighing.
I got scared and ran back.
Nonsense!
Xifeng scolded.
We dont allow talk about ghosts and spirits here.
I never believe such tales.
Hurry up and get out!
At once the young maid withdrew.
Next Xifeng made Caiming check their account for that day.
By the time this was done it was nearly the second watch and after sitting up for a while to chat she sent them all to bed, then retired herself.
Towards midnight, sleeping fitfully, Xifeng found herself shivering and woke with a start.
Her trepidation growing as she lay there, she surprised Pinger and Qiutong by calling them over to keep her company.
Qiutong had formerly often defied Xifeng, but she had become more obedient after Jia Lian began to slight her owing to her treatment of Second Sister You, and Xifeng had done her best to win her over.
Still, she lacked Pingers devotion to their mistress, making only a show of complaisance.
Now that Xifeng was unwell, she brought her some tea.
Thank you.
Xifeng took a sip.
Go back to bed now.
Its enough if just Pinger stays here.
To please her, however, Qiutong said, If you cant sleep, madam, we can take it in turns to sit with you.
Xifeng talked with them for a while, then dozed off.
By the time she was sound asleep they heard cocks crowing in the distance so they lay down fully dressed till dawn, when they got up to help her with her toilet.
Xifeng was on edge and upset after her bad night, but not wanting to show this she forced herself to get up.
She was sitting there listlessly when she heard a maid in the courtyard asking for Pinger.
Im in here, Pinger called.
The girl lifted the portiere and came in, having been sent by Lady Wang to find Jia Lian.
She reported, Someone outside has come on urgent official business.
As the master has just gone out, Her Ladyship wants Master Lian to go over at once.
Xifeng was startled by this.
To know what this business was, you must read the next chapter.
Chapter 89 A Memento of a Dead Maid Leads Baoyu to Write a Poem A False Suspicion Makes Daiyu Abstain from Food Xifeng, in low spirits that morning, was shocked by the young maids announcement.
Official business!
she exclaimed, What is it?
I dont know, maam.
Just now a page from the inner gate reported that urgent business has come up at His Lordships ministry, so Her Ladyship sent me to ask Master Lian to go over.
Relieved to know that the matter concerned the Ministry of Works, Xifeng told her, Go and tell Her Ladyship that Master Lian left town on business last night, and hasnt yet returned.
But first send someone to let Master Zhen know.
The maid assented and left.
Before long, Jia Zhen came over to question the messenger from the ministry.
Then he went in to inform Lady Wang, Word has come from the Ministry of Works that yesterday they heard from the Yellow River Commission that the dyke in Henan has been breached, flooding several prefectures and districts.
State funds have been allocated for repair work, and this will be keeping the whole ministry busy.
So they sent specially to report this to His Lordship.
This said he withdrew, and on Jia Zhengs return relayed this message to him.
From then on right up till winter, as Jia Zheng was busy every day and constantly in his yamen, Baoyu grew more slack in his studies, although for fear of his father he still attended school.
He dared not call on Daiyu too often either.
One morning in the middle of the tenth month, a sudden drop in the temperature made Xiren prepare a bundle of warm clothes for him before he set off to school.
Its so cold today, she said, you must dress more warmly first thing and in the evening.
She took out a coat for him to wear, and wrapped up a cape for a young maid to give Beiming with the message, Now that its cold, you must keep this ready for Master Bao.
The page assented, took the bundle, and followed Baoyu to school.
Baoyu was doing his lessons when a wind sprang up, buffeting the window paper.
The weather is changing, remarked Dairu and, opening the window, he saw that tiers of black clouds in the northwest were bearing slowly southeast.
Beiming now came in.
Master Bao, its getting colder better put on more clothes, he advised.
When Baoyu nodded, Beiming brought in a cape.
At sight of it Baoyu became lost in thought.
All the other boys stared at it too.
For it was the peacock-feather cape which Qingwen had mended.
Why bring this?
demanded Baoyu.
Who gave it to you?
The girls in your place brought it out in a wrapper, said Beiming.
Im not too cold I wont wear it.
Wrap it up.
Dairu imagined that Baoyu thought the cape too good to wear, and was pleased by this evidence of frugality.
But Beiming urged, Do put it on, Master Bao.
If you catch cold, Ill be the one whos blamed.
Please wear it for my sake!
Baoyu had to comply then.
He sat staring at his book in a dazed fashion but the tutor paid no attention, thinking he was studying.
That evening, when the class was dismissed, Baoyu asked for a days sick leave.
And as old Dairu simply coached these boys to while away the time when he himself was not ailing, as often happened, he was glad to have one less to worry about the next day.
Knowing, moreover, that ha Zheng was busy and that Baoyus grandmother doted on the boy, he nodded his consent.
Baoyu on his return reported this to his grandmother and mother, who naturally believed him.
After sitting there for a while he went back to the Garden to join Xiren and the others.
He was not his usual cheerful and talkative self, however, for he lay down, still wearing the cape, on the kang.
Suppers ready, Xiren announced.
Would you like it now, or a bit later?
I dont want any, Im not feeling well, he answered.
You go ahead and have yours.
In that case, youd better take your cape off.
Youll spoil it if you crumple it like that.
Never mind.
Its not just that its flimsy, but look at that stitching on it you shouldnt spoil it.
Touched to the quick by this he sighed, All right then, wrap it up carefully for me and put it away.
Ill never wear it again!
He stood up to take off the cape and folded it up himself before Xiren could take it.
Well, Master Bao!
she exclaimed.
Why are you putting yourself out like this today?
Instead of answering he asked, Where is the wrapper?
Sheyue quickly passed it to him and while he wrapped the cape up turned to wink at Xiren.
Baoyu sat down by himself then, in low spirits, ignoring them.
When the clock on the shelf struck, he looked down at his watch and saw it was half past five.
By and by a young maid came in to light the lamp.
If you dont want supper, said Xiren, at least have half a bowl of hot congee.
If you go without food that may arouse hot humours then we shall have more trouble.
He shook his head.
Im not hungry.
If I force myself to eat, I shall feel worse.
Then youd better go to bed early.
She and Sheyue prepared the bed, and Baoyu lay down.
He tossed and turned but could not sleep, only dozing off when it was nearly dawn.
But after no more than the time it takes for a meal, he was awake again.
By now Xiren and Sheyue were up.
Xiren said, I heard you tossing about last night till the fifth watch, but I didnt like to disturb you.
And then I dropped off myself.
Did you get any sleep or not?
A little, but then somehow I woke up again.
Arent you feeling well?
Im all right, just rather edgy.
Are you going to school today?
No, yesterday I asked for a days leave.
Id like to amuse myself in the Garden today, but just now I feel cold.
Get them to clean up a room for me, and put ready some incense, paper, ink and a brush then you can get on with your work while I sit there quietly for a bit.
I dont want to be disturbed.
If you want to study quietly, Sheyue said, whod dream of disturbing you?
Thats a good idea, agreed Xiren.
You wont catch cold, and sitting quietly by yourself you wont be distracted either.
But what will you eat today, if youve lost your appetite?
Let us know in good time so that we can tell the kitchen.
Anything will do dont fuss.
But Id like some fruit put in that room to scent it.
Which room would be best?
Xiren wondered.
The only clean one, really, is Qingwens old room.
As no one goes there nowadays, its quite tidy.
Only it may be chilly.
Thats all right, he said.
Just put a brazier in there.
She readily agreed to this.
While they were talking a young maid had brought in a saucer, bowl and pair of chopsticks, which she handed to Sheyue saying Just now Miss Xiren asked for these, and the old woman from the kitchen has brought them.
Sheyue saw that it was a bowl of birds-nest soup.
Did you order this?
she asked Xiren.
He had no supper yesterday evening and passed a sleepless night, Xiren explained.
I thought he must be feeling hollow inside this morning so I got the girls to ask the kitchen for this.
She told the younger maids to bring a table, and Sheyue waited on Baoyu while he finished the soup and rinsed his mouth.
Then Qiuwen came in.
The rooms been tidied, she said.
But Master Bao had better wait till the charcoal is red before going there.
Baoyu nodded, too preoccupied by his own thoughts to talk.
Soon a young maid came to announce, The writing things have been put ready.
Good, he said.
Yet another girl announced, Breakfast is ready.
Where will you have it, sir?
Just bring it here thats simplest.
She assented and went out to fetch the food.
Baoyu remarked with a smile to Xiren and Sheyue, Im feeling so depressed, I doubt if I can eat anything alone.
Why dont you have breakfast with me?
If I see you enjoying it, I may eat more.
You may like the idea, Master Bao, chuckled Sheyue.
But that would never do!
Actually it doesnt matter, countered Xiren.
Weve drunk together more than once before.
But we can only do this occasionally to cheer you up, young master.
If it wasnt in fun, that would be against all the rules of propriety!
So the three of them sat down, Baoyu in the top place, the two girls on either side.
After they had finished the meal, a young maid brought them tea to rinse their mouths and they had the table removed.
Baoyu holding his cup sat silent, lost in thought.
Is that room ready?
he asked presently.
We told you it was, said Sheyue.
Why ask again?
After a while he went to Qingwens old room, lit a stick of incense and set out some fruit.
Then he sent the others away and closed the door.
Xiren and the other girls outside took care to keep very quiet.
Baoyu chose a sheet of pink paper with a gilded border and floral designs on one of the top and bottom corners.
After a short invocation he picked up his brush and wrote The Master of Happy Red Court bums incense to Sister Qingwen, and presents tea with a sweet fragrance.
Pray come to the sacrifice!
He then penned the verse -763 My close companion, you alone My inmost thoughts could share A sudden storm out of the blue Cut short your life of care.
-763 Who is there now to speak so sweet and low?
-763 Streams flowing east can no more westward flow.
I long for you, but have no herb To bring you back again.
-763 Glimpsing the capea turquoise cloud Fills me with endless pain.
This written, using the incense stick as a taper, he burned his poem to ashes, then sat quietly till the incense was burnt up, whereupon he left the room.
Why are you coming out?
Xiren asked.
Were you feeling bored again?
I was in the dumps and wanted a quiet place where I could sit for a bit, he prevaricated, smiling.
Now that Ive got over it, Im going to have a stroll outside.
He went out, making straight for Bamboo Lodge, and on reaching the courtyard called, Is Cousin Lin in?
Who is it?
asked Zijuan, raising the portiere.
Oh, Master Bao.
Shes in her room.
Please come in.
As Baoyu followed her in, Daiyu called from the inner room, Zijuan, bring Master Bao in here.
Flanking the door of her room, Baoyu saw a newly written couplet on purple paper with gilded cloud-dragon designs.
It read Green casement and bright moon remain, But the men of old annals are gone.
He smiled and walked in, asking, What are you doing, cousin?
She rose to meet him and said with a smile, Sit down.
Im copying a sutra, and have only two lines left.
Let me finish it and then we can talk.
She told Xueyan to bring tea.
Dont trouble, said Baoyu.
Just go on with your copying.
He noticed in the middle of the wall a scroll painting of the Moon Goddess Change and another goddess, each with an attendant, the second one carrying what looked like a long clothing bag.
There were only a few clouds surrounding them, with no other decorations.
It was done in the style of Li Longmians 2 outline drawings.
The inscription Contending in the Cold was written in the old official script.
Have you just put this painting up, cousin?
he asked.
Thats right, said Daiyu.
Yesterday when they were tidying up, I thought of it and took it out for them to hang.
Whats its story?
Surely everybody knows it, she said with a smile, Why ask?
I cant for the moment remember.
Do tell me, cousin.
You must know the lines -763 The Green Nymph and Change, both able to stand cold, Are vying in beauty in the frosty moon.
3 Of course!
he exclaimed.
How original and cultured!
And this is the right season, too, to hang this up.
He strolled around looking at this and that till Xueyan brought him some tea.
And soon Daiyu, her copying finished, stood up.
Excuse me for neglecting you, she said.
Always so polite, cousin!
he chuckled.
He noticed now that Daiyu was wearing a pale- blue embroidered fur-lined jacket under a short white squirrel tunic, and a pink embroidered silk padded skirt of the kind worn by Lady Yang.
With no flowers in her cloudy tresses, which were loosely knotted and clasped with a flat gold pin, she was truly like -763 A jade tree standing gracefully in the breeze.
Or sweet dewy lotus in bloom.
Have you been playing the lute these days, cousin?
he asked.
Not for the last two days, because I found copying made my fingers too cold.
Its just as well not to play.
Though the lute is a refined instrument, I dont think much of it.
No one ever won wealth, nobility or long life from playing it, only grief and longing.
Besides, to play, you have to memorize the score which is rather an effort.
As youre so delicate, cousin, it seems to me you shouldnt waste energy on it.
Daiyu simply smiled and said nothing.
Then, pointing at a lute on the wall, he asked, Is this yours?
Why is it so short?
Because when I first learned to play, being small I couldnt reach the strings of regular lutes, so this was specially made for me.
Though its not anything exceptional, its parts are well fitted and its well proportioned.
See the grain of the wood.
Isnt it as fine as yak hair?
So it has quite a clear timbre.
Have you written any poems these days?
Hardly any since the last poetry club.
Baoyu smiled and said, Dont try to hide it from me!
I heard you chanting something like Why repine?
Would that my heart were pure as the moon in the sky.
You accompanied it on the lute, and the sound seemed exceptionally clear.
Can you deny that?
How did you happen to hear?
I heard it the other day on my way back from Smartweed Breeze Cot, and not wanting to disturb you I just listened quietly then went away.
Ive been meaning to ask you Why did you start with level rhymes, then at the end change suddenly to an oblique one?
4 What was the reason for that?
Music comes naturally from the heart, she answered.
There are no set rules you just play as you feel.
So thats the reason.
Its too bad I dont understand music and so it was wasted on me.
How many understanding people have there been since of old?
she replied.
At that, Baoyu realized that he had been tactless, and feared he had hurt her feelings.
He sat there with so much he longed to say, yet not knowing how to word it.
Daiyu also felt that her last remark had been thoughtless, and must have sounded cold so she too was silent.
This convinced Baoyu that she took this personally, and he rose sheepishly to say Ill leave you to rest now, cousin.
Im off to see Tanchun.
When you see her, give her my regards.
He agreed to this and went out.
After seeing him off, Daiyu came back and sat down dejectedly.
Nowadays Baoyu talks in such an ambiguous way, blowing hot and cold by turns, I cant tell what he means, she thought.
Just then Zijuan came in to ask, Have you finished copying, miss?
Shall I put away the brush and ink-stone?
Yes, you can.
I shant be doing any more.
She went into the inner room then to lie down, turning the problem over in her mind.
Zijuan came in again to ask if she would like some tea.
No, I just want to rest a bit.
You neednt stay here.
Zijuan going out found Xueyan all alone in a brown study.
Whats worrying you?
she asked, going up to her.
Xueyan gave a start, then said, Dont make such a noise!
Today I heard something very strange.
I dont mind telling you, but you mustnt pass it on!
She signed towards the inner room, then started out, beckoning Zijuan to follow.
At the foot of the steps she said softly, Did you know, sister, that Baoyu is engaged?
Zijuan was flabbergasted.
Who says so?
she demanded.
Surely not!
Its true, I assure you.
Most likely, apart from us, all the others know.
Where did you hear this?
From Daishu.
She says the girls father is a prefect.
Its a wealthy family, and shes good-looking too.
Just then Zijuan heard Daiyu coughing as if she had got up.
Afraid she had come to the outer room and overheard them, she caught hold of Xueyan and signed to her to keep quiet.
But when she looked into the room there was no one there.
She whispered to Xueyan, What exactly did she say?
The other day wasnt I sent to Miss Tanchuns place to thank her?
said Xueyan.
She wasnt in.
Daishu was the only one there.
As we sat chatting we happened to speak of Master Baos mischievous ways.
Hes really a problem!
she said.
Just playing about, not at all like a grown man.
Already engaged, yet still so muddle-headed!
Is it settled?
I asked.
She said, Yes.
Some Mr. Wang was the go-betweenhes related to the East Mansion so without making further inquiries they accepted out of hand.
Zijuan cocked her head, thinking this extremely strange.
-392 Why has nobody in the house mentioned it?
she pressed.
Daishu explained that too.
It was the old ladys idea.
She was afraid that if Baoyu knew about it hed start running wild.
Thats why its never mentioned.
And after telling me this Daishu told me on no account to pass it on she said that I like to blab.
She pointed at the house.
Thats why I didnt tell her a word about this.
Since you asked me today, I couldnt hide it from you.
At this point they heard the cockatoo, which had learned this from them, call out, The young ladys back!
Bring tea!
Quick.
Startled, they turned to look, and seeing no one there they scolded the bird.
Going back inside, they discovered Daiyu just about to sit down on a chair, panting for breath.
Zijuan asked in confusion if she wanted a drink.
Where have you two been?
gasped Daiyu.
I called but nobody came.
She went back to the kang and sank down with her face to the wall, telling them to let down the curtain.
Having done this, the two maids went out, each wondering whether she had overheard them, but neither liking to express her misgiving.
Now Daiyu had been brooding anxiously, then eavesdropped on her two maids conversation.
Though she did not hear everything, she caught the main gist and felt as if plunged into a raging sea.
Thinking it over, it bore out the ominous dream she had so recently had.
Frustration and grief filled her heart.
Die and be done with it, she thought, rather than have a blow like this sprung upon her.
She also reflected bitterly that she had no parents to turn to.
Well then, she would let her health run down, and in half a year or so leave this sea of troubles.
Having reached this resolve, she closed her eyes and pretended to be asleep, without covering herself with the quilt or putting on more clothes.
Zijuan and Xueyan came in several times to see if she needed anything, but as she lay motionless they did not like to call her.
She went without supper that evening.
After the lamps were lit, Zijuan raised the curtain and found her asleep, her quilt kicked to the bottom of the bed.
She covered her gently to stop her from catching cold, and Daiyu did not move but as soon as the maid had left she kicked off the bedding again.
Zijuan felt constrained to ask Xueyan, Was it really true what you told me earlier on?
Of course it was.
How did Daishu get to know?
She heard it from Hongyu.
Then Zijuan confided, Im afraid our young lady overheard us.
Look at the state she was in just now that must be the reason for it.
We mustnt ever mention it again.
They got ready to go to bed then.
But first Zijuan went in to have another look at their young mistress, and found that she had kicked off her bedding again.
Once more she gently tucked the quilt around her.
But no more about that night.
The next day Daiyu rose early, and instead of calling her maids sat there alone lost in thought.
When Zijuan woke and saw her already up, she exclaimed in surprise Youre up very early, miss!
I know, said Daiyu.
I went to bed early, thats why I woke early.
Zijuan hastily got up and roused Xueyan to help Daiyu with her toilet.
She just stared blankly, however, at the mirror and soon was weeping so copiously that her silk handkerchief was drenched.
Truly -748 Gazing into the mirror at her emaciated face, Both she and her reflection pitied each other!
Zijuan refrained from trying to comfort her, for fear of making matters worse.
Some time passed before Daiyu set about her toilet, but listlessly, her tears still flowing.
She then sat there a little longer.
Light a stick of that Tibetan incense, she told Zijuan presently.
You had hardly any sleep, miss.
What do you want incense for?
To copy more sutras?
Daiyu nodded.
You woke up too early, miss, protested Zijuan.
If you copy sutras now, Im afraid youll wear yourself out.
Dont worry.
The sooner I finish the better.
Besides, its not the sutra Im thinking about, but writing will help distract me.
And later, when you see my calligraphy, itll be like seeing me again, She shed tears anew.
Knowing that it was useless to reason with her, Zijuan could not hold back her own tears.
Now that Daiyu had made up her mind to ruin her health, she wanted no nourishment and ate less every day.
Baoyu often made time to visit her after school but although she had so much she longed to tell him, now that they were no longer children she could hardly tease him playfully as before or express her pent-up feelings.
He, too, wanted to bare his heart to her to console her, yet he feared this might offend her and make her illness worse.
So when they met they could only express their concern in the most superficial way.
Truly, theirs was a case of devotion leading to alienation.
The Lady Dowager and Lady Wang, fond as they were of Daiyu, simply called in doctors to attend her as she was so often ill, with no inkling that she was wasting away for love.
And though Zijuan knew the truth, she dared not reveal it.
So for a fortnight Daiyu ate daily less, till her appetite had so diminished that she could not even swallow a mouthful of congee.
Any talk she heard she suspected concerned Baoyus marriage.
Anyone from Happy Red Court, whether master or maid, made her think of his impending marriage too.
When Aunt Xue called on her without Baochai, this made her still more suspicious.
She even wished everyone would keep away, and refused to take any medicine in the hope of hastening her death.
In her dreams, she kept hearing people refer to Madam Bao.
Suspicion poisoned her mind.
And at last the day came when, refusing both rice and congee, she was at her last gasp, at deaths door.
To know what became of her, read the chapter which follows.
Chapter 90 The Loss of a Padded Jacket Involves a Poor Girl with a Scold A Gift of Sweetmeats Perturbs a Young Gentleman After Daiyu had resolved on self-destruction she went into a decline, until there came a day when she could eat nothing.
For the first fortnight or so, when the old lady and others took it in turn to call, she had still been able to say a few words, but these last two days she remained virtually silent.
Sometimes she lay in a coma, sometimes she had lucid spells.
Wondering what had brought on this illness, her grandmother questioned her maids a couple of times.
But how dared they tell her the truth?
Zijuan wanted to ask Daishu to confirm the report but feared that would only hasten her young ladys death, and so when she saw Daishu she held her tongue.
And Xueyan, as she knew that her tattling was the root of this trouble and only wished she could grow a hundred tongues to deny it, was of course even more afraid to speak out.
The day that Daiyu abstained completely from food, Zijuan felt that the end had come and, for a while, remained weeping at her side.
Then she came out and whispered to Xueyan, Go in and look after her carefully while I go to tell the mistresses.
Shes never been as bad as this before.
Xueyan agreeing to this, Zijuan went off.
Xueyan stayed watching over Daiyu, now in a coma.
Too young to have seen anything like this before, she thought her young mistress was dying and, torn between grief and alarm, longed for Zijuans return.
Then the frightened girl heard footsteps outside the window.
It must be Zijuan, she thought with relief.
As she sprang up to raise the portiere for her, the outside portiere swished and in came Daishu, sent by Tanchun to inquire after the invalid.
Seeing Xueyan waiting there Daishu asked, How is she?
Xueyan nodded and beckoned her in.
Daishu noticed Zijuans ab 2731 sence, and was terrified by the sight of Daiyu apparently at her last gasp.
Wheres Sister Zijuan?
she asked.
Gone to tell the mistresses.
Under the impression that Daiyu was unconscious, and as Zijuan was away, Xueyan took Daishus hand and asked her in a low voice, Was it true what you told me the other day about some Mr. Wang proposing a match for our Master Bao?
Of course it was.
When was the engagement fixed?
How could it be fixed?
What I told you that day was what I heard from Hongyu.
Later I went to Madam Lians place when she was talking it over with Sister Pinger.
She said, This is just a pretext for those protgs to suck up to His Lordship, so that hell help them in future.
Not to say Lady Xing didnt approve of the girl, even if she did what does her judgment count for?
Besides, unknown to her, the old lady long ago decided on one of the girls in our Garden.
She just made a show of consulting her because His Lordship mentioned this proposal.
I also heard Madam Lian say, For Baoyu, the old ladys bound to choose some relative.
No other proposals, no matter from whom, would even be considered.
Xueyan, forgetting herself, blurted out, Why, then, our young ladys dying for no reason!
What do you mean?
You wouldnt know, but she overheard me telling Sister Zijuan about this the other day.
Thats why shes wasting away.
Keep your voice down, or she may hear us!
Shes already unconscious.
Look!
She can hardly last more than a day or two now.
Just then Zijuan lifted the portiere and stepped in.
Whats all this?
she exclaimed softly.
If you want to talk, talk outside instead of here.
Youll be the death of her!
This is so extraordinary, cried Daishu, I simply cant believe it!
Good sister, dont take offence, retorted Zijuan, but really you have no sense!
You should have known better than to spread such gossip.
2733 As they were talking they heard Daiyu cough.
Zijuan ran to the kang to attend to her while the two other girls fell silent.
Bending over Daiyu, Zijuan asked her softly, Do you want some water, miss?
Yes, was the faint reply.
Xueyan at once poured half a cup of boiled water which Zijuan took from her.
Daishu stepped forward too, but Zijuan shook her head to make her keep quiet.
They stood there until Daiyu coughed again.
Do you want some water, miss?
Zijuan asked again.
Once again Daiyu murmured her assent and tried to raise her head, but this was beyond her.
Zijuan clambered on to the kang beside her, the cup in her hand.
First she made sure that the water was neither too hot nor too cold, then held it to Daiyus lips, supporting her head while she sipped.
As she looked eager for more, instead of removing the cup Zijuan held it there while she took another sip.
Then Daiyu shook her head, declining more, and lay down again with a sigh.
After a while, half opening her eyes, she asked Was that Daishu talking?
Yes, miss, said Zijuan.
Daishu, who had not yet left, came over to greet her.
Daiyu opened her eyes to look at her and nodded.
After a pause she said, When you go back, give my regards to your mistress.
Guessing that she wanted to be left in peace, Daishu quietly slipped away.
Now Daiyu though so gravely ill had been clear in her mind.
She had caught a sentence here and there of the conversation between Daishu and Xueyan, but she lay as if unconscious, owing partly to sheer weakness.
From what she overheard she realized that the match proposed had not been agreed to.
And then Daishu had quoted Xifeng as saying that the old lady had decided on choosing some relative from the girls in the Garden.
Who could this mean if not her?
At this thought, her despair gave way to joy and her mind became clearer too.
That was why she had drunk some water and why she had wanted to question Daishu.
Just then the old lady arrived with Lady Wang, Li Wan and Xifeng 2735 who had hurried over after hearing Zijuans report.
Daiyu, her fears set at rest now, naturally no longer wanted to die.
Though still weak and lacking in energy, she managed to answer their inquiries briefly.
Seeing this, Xifeng called Zijuan over.
What do you mean by frightening us like that?
she demanded Your young ladys not in such a bad way after all.
She really looked bad, replied Zijuan.
Otherwise I wouldnt have presumed to disturb you.
Now, coming back, Im quite amazed to find her so much better.
Dont listen to her.
What does she know?
said the old lady with a smile .
When somethings wrong, it shows good sense to report it.
I like a girl whos not too lazy to use her tongue and feet.
They stayed talking a little longer, then believing Daiyu to be in no danger they left, Truly -732 The cure for a broken heart is heartening news The knot must be untied by the one who tied it.
So by degrees Daiyu recovered, and her two maids secretly gave thanks to Buddha.
Xueyan remarked to Zijuan, Thank goodness shes better now!
Her falling ill was odd, and so was her recovery.
Her falling ill wasnt odd, replied Zijuan, but her recovery is.
I suppose she and Baoyu must be destined for each other.
As people say, The way to happiness is never smooth and Nothing can prevent a match made in Heaven.
So it seems human wishes are willed by Providence, and they are fated to marry.
Another thing remember that year when I told Baoyu Miss Lin would be going back south?
He flew into such a frenzy, he nearly turned the whole household upside down!
This time another casual remark nearly cost our young lady her life.
What is this if not a case of predestined fate?
They had a good laugh in secret, after which Xueyan said again, Well, thank goodness shes better.
We must be careful not to gossip in future.
Even if Baoyu marries some other girl and I see the wedding myself, I wont breathe a word about it.
Thats right, agreed Zijuan, smiling.
2737 These two were not the only ones to be talking this business over.
All the domestics knew of Daiyus strange illness and strange recovery, and in twos and threes they canvassed the matter together, till very soon this came to Xifengs ears.
Lady Xing and Lady Wang also found it puzzling.
Only the Lady Dowager had a good inkling of the reason.
One day Their Ladyships and Xifeng, chatting with the old lady in her room, brought up the subject of Daiyus illness again.
I was just going to tell you something, said the old lady.
Baoyu and Daiyu have been inseparable since they were small, and I didnt think it mattered as they were children.
Since then, though, theres been all this talk about her sudden illness and sudden recovery just because they are growing up now.
So I dont think it proper to leave them together all the time.
What do you say?
Taken aback, Lady Wang could only answer, Daiyu is a bright, intelligent girl.
As for Baoyu, hes such a simpleton he may get himself talked about sometimes.
On the face of it, though, theyre both of them still children.
If we move one of them out of the Garden now, all of a sudden, wont that give people ideas?
As they say When the time comes do not tarry boys must wed and girls must marry.
Dont you think it would be better, madam, to lose no time in arranging their marriages?
Frowning, the old lady said, Daiyu is over-sensitive, and though thats not a bad thing in a way its also the reason why I dont want to marry her to Baoyu.
Besides, shes so delicate.
I doubt whether shes long for this world.
The most suitable choice is Baochai.
We all agree with you there, madam, said Lady Wang.
But we must arrange a marriage for Daiyu too.
A growing girl is bound to get ideas into her head.
If shes really set her heart on Baoyu and hears that hes engaged to Baochai, were going to have a problem on our hands.
But we cant marry her off before Baoyu, objected the old lady.
Who ever heard of arranging a marriage for someone elses child before ones own?
Especially as shes two years younger than he is.
Still, theres truth in what you said, so well just have to see to it that theres no talk about Baoyus engagement.
At once Xifeng turned to the maids.
Did you hear that?
Mind you dont gossip about Master Baos en- 2739 gagement.
Ill flay anyone who blabs!
Xifeng, said the old lady, since that illness of yours youve stopped paying much attention to what goes on in the Garden.
I want you to keep your eyes open, and not just with regard to this.
The way the servants there were drinking and gambling the other year was disgraceful.
You have sharper eyes than the rest of us, so we must trouble you to keep them under stricter control.
Besides, I think theyre more obedient to you.
Xifeng promised to do her best, and after a little further talk they dispersed.
After that, Xifeng often went to check up in the Garden.
One day she had just gone in when she heard an old woman at Purple Caltrop Isle raising a rumpus.
As soon as the old woman saw her approaching, she stood at attention and greeted her.
Why are you making such a noise here?
demanded Xifeng.
The mistresses put me in charge of the flowers and fruit here, madam.
Ive done nothing wrong, yet Miss Xiuyans maid says were thieves!
Tell me what happened.
Yesterday our Heier came here with me to play for a bit.
Having no sense, she went to Miss Xiuyans place to peek around, and then I sent her home.
This morning, her maid told me something was missing.
When I asked what it was, she started questioning me!
Thats nothing to get so worked up about.
Well, this Garden belongs to our mistress family, not to theirs.
Its our mistress who put us in charge here so how dare they call us thieves?
Xifeng spat in her face.
Dont give me that talk!
she said sternly.
Youre here to keep an eye on things.
When a young lady loses something, you should look into it.
How can you maunder in this senseless fashion?
She ordered her maids to fetch Lin Zhixiaos wife to drive the woman away.
At once Xiuyan came out to greet her with a smile.
Please dont, she said.
Its of no account over and done with.
Thats not the point, cousin, said Xifeng.
Quite apart from your losing something, shes gone too far, forgetting her place like that.
Seeing that the woman was kneeling to beg for pardon, Xiuyan invited 2741 Xifeng in to sit down.
I know these creatures, Xifeng went on.
Im the only one of the mistresses they treat with any respect.
Still Xiuyan begged her to let the woman off, saying her own maid was to blame.
Well, for Miss Xings sake then, Ill overlook it this time, conceded Xifeng.
The woman kowtowed her thanks to them both and went off, whereupon they sat down.
What have you lost?
asked Xifeng with a smile.
Nothing much, just a red jacket, an old one.
When I told them to look for it and they couldnt find it, I said it didnt matter.
But my maid is so silly she asked that woman about it, and of course that put her back up.
Its all this silly girls fault, and Ive given her a scolding, so thats that.
We may as well forget about it.
Xifeng looked her up and down and saw that though she had on some fur-lined and padded clothes, they were rather worn and could not be too warm.
Her quilts too were on the thin side.
But the knick-knacks in the room and on the desk, all provided by the Lady Dowager, were neatly set out and spotless.
Impressed by this and drawn to her, Xifeng said Of course a jacket isnt all that important, but now that its cold you need something snug to wear.
Naturally you should try to trace it.
The insolence of that old slave, talking back!
After a little more chat Xifeng took her leave, and having paid various other calls she went home.
There she told Pinger to fetch a red crepe inner jacket, a deep green satin jacket lined with sheepskin, a sapphire blue embroidered padded skirt and a bright green gown lined with white squirrel.
When these had been wrapped up she had them sent to Xiuyan.
Xiuyan was still upset after the old scolds tirade, even though Xifeng had put a stop to it.
She thought, No one dares to offend any of the other girls here except me.
With me, though, they keep making snide remarks and now Xifeng knows about it.
The more she brooded the more wretched she felt, but there was nobody in whom to confide.
She was choking back her sobs when Fenger brought in the clothes sent by Xifeng.
Xiuyan most resolutely declined the gift.
2743 My mistress says that if you think these too worn, shell send new ones later, said Fenger.
Its very kind of your mistress.
Xiuyan smiled.
Shes sent me these because I lost a jacket, but I really cant accept them.
So take them back and be sure to thank her for me.
I do appreciate her thoughtfulness.
She gave Fenger a pouch, and with that the girl had to leave.
Before long, Fenger came back again with Pinger.
Xiuyan welcomed them and asked them to sit down.
Pinger told her with a smile, Our mistress says youre treating us like strangers.
Oh no!
exclaimed Xiuyan.
But I really cant accept such a handsome gift.
Our mistress says that if you wont accept, it must be either because you think these clothes too shabby or because you look down on her.
Just now our mistress insisted that if I were to bring back the clothes the way Fenger did, shed be really angry with me.
Blushing, Xiuyan said gratefully, Well then, I dare not refuse.
Then she urged them to have some tea.
On their way back, Pinger and Fenger were accosted by one of the old women who worked for Aunt Xue.
Where have you been?
Pinger asked her.
Our mistress and young lady sent me to give their regards to all the ladies here, the woman replied.
Just now I asked Madam Lian where you were, and she said youd gone to the Garden.
Have you come from Miss Xings place?
How did you know?
I just heard about it.
And, truly, no one can help admiring your mistress and you, the way you both behave!
Pinger laughed and invited her back to rest for a while.
I have something else to do now, said the woman.
Ill call some other day.
She went off, and Pinger returned to report on her errand to Xifeng.
No more of this.
2745 Now Aunt Xues household had been turned upside-down by Jingui.
When the woman went back and told them about Xiuyan, Baochai and her mother shed tears.
Its all because brothers away that Xiuyan has to go on putting up with these slights, said Baochai.
Im glad Cousin Xifeng is so considerate.
In future we must see what we can do too as, after all, shell be marrying into our family.
Just then Xue Ke came in.
The friends Brother Pan has been making these years!
he fumed.
Theres not a single decent sort among the whole foxy lot.
Theyre a pack of curs!
I dont believe they feel any concern for him.
They just come to ferret our news.
The last couple of days Ive sent the whole lot packing.
Ive told the gateman, too, not to admit such scoundrels from now on.
Are they hang Yuhans lot?
asked Aunt Xue.
No, Jiang Yuhan hasnt come.
These are some others.
Xue Kes outburst had further lowered Aunt Xues spirits.
Though I have a son, its as if I had none.
she sighed.
Even if the authorities let him off, hell be useless.
Though youre my nephew, and not so close, I can see that you have more sense than Pan and will be my only prop in my old age.
Its up to you to make a success of your life.
Especially as the family of your betrothed isnt as well off as before.
Its hard for a girl to leave home and get married, and all she hopes for is an able husband who will provide for her.
If Xiuyan were like that creature.... she pointed towards the inner rooms well, enough said!
But Xiuyan is truly modest, sensible too.
She can put up with poverty, and wealth wouldnt spoil her either.
Once this trouble blows over we must hurry up and arrange your wedding, and that will be one less thing on my mind.
Theres still Sister Baoqins marriage which must be on your mind, aunt.
he said.
As for mine, dont worry about it.
After some more talk Xue Ke went back to his room for supper.
He thought to himself, Xiuyans living in the Jias Garden as a dependent, and being a poor relation she must be having a thin time of it.
As we travelled here together, I know her character and what shes like.
Heaven 2747 is really unjust, giving a spoilt bitch like Xia Jingui money while a girl like Xiuyan is so badly off.
How does the King of Hell decide these things, I wonder?
He wanted to write a poem to vent his frustration, but as he had no training in versification he could only pen the following doggerel -740 A dragon stranded, a fish high and dry Apart we think of each other, you and I.
In mud and slime our bitter days are passed When will we find clear water at long last?
This written, he read it through and was tempted to paste it on the wall but diffidently told himself, I dont want people seeing it to laugh at me.
After a second reading he thought, Never mind!
I may as well paste it up for my own amusement.
Reading it once more, however, he decided it really was no good and put it between the pages of a book.
Im no longer a boy, he mused, but now our familys run into this bad trouble and theres no knowing when it will blow over.
Its keeping that sweet, gentle girl so sad and lonely!
His reflections were cut short by the arrival of Baochan with a hamper which she put on the table, smiling.
Xue Ke got up and invited her to be seated.
Here are four dishes of sweetmeats and one small pot of wine, she announced archly.
My mistress told me to bring them to you.
Please thank my sister-in-law.
But why didnt she send a young maid instead of troubling you?
Thats all right.
Were one family, so why stand on ceremony?
Besides, youve put yourself out so much over Master Pans business, our mistress has long been wanting to show her appreciation, but she was afraid people might suspect her motives.
You know how it is in our family all sweet talk hiding inward disagreement.
It shouldnt matter sending you a small present, but it might give rise to a whole lot of gossip.
So today she simply prepared a couple of dishes and a pot of wine and told me to bring them to you secretly.
She glanced at him with a meaningful smile and added.
You mustnt talk in that formal way again, sir, or youll embarrass me.
Im only a servant.
If I can wait on Master Pan, whats to stop me from waiting on you, sir?
2749 Xue Ke was a simple, honest young fellow.
He had never been treated like this by Jingui and Baochan before yet as the latter said it was to thank him for helping Xue Pan, this seemed to him quite natural.
Leave the dishes, sister, he said.
But please take back the wine.
I really cant drink much, just a cup occasionally when Im forced to, but ordinarily I never drink.
Surely your mistress and you knew that?
I can use my own discretion in other matters, she replied, but I cant obey you in this.
You know what our mistress is like.
If I took it back, she wouldnt think its because you dont drink but because Id been remiss.
So Xue Ke had to let her leave the wine.
Then Baochan went to the door and peeped outside.
Turning back to smile at him, she pointed towards the inner rooms.
I dare say shell be coming herself to thank you, she said.
Not knowing what she meant, he felt rather put out.
Please thank her for me, sister, he rejoined.
I dont want her to catch a chill in this cold weather.
Besides, as were relatives theres no need to be so polite.
Baochan made no answer to this but went away smiling.
At first Xue Ke had believed that Jingui had sent him these things out of gratitude for his services to Xue Pan.
But Baochans secretive ways and meaning glances made him afraid there was more to it than that.
But what other designs could she have on me?
he wondered.
After all, shes my sister-in-law.
Maybe this hussy Baochan, not liking to make advances herself, is using Jinguis name.
Still, shes Cousin Pans concubine too, so how could she.... Then it occurred to him, Jingui has never shown the least sense of propriety.
When the fancy takes her she gets herself up like a vamp, preening herself on her beauty so for all I know she may have designs on me.
Or maybe, because she bears Sister Baoqin some grudge, shes playing this dirty trick to get me into hot water and give me a bad name thats possible too.
The likelihood of this alarmed him, and he was in a quandary when he heard someone giggling outside his window.
Xue Ke gave a start.
But to know who it was you must read the following chapter.
Chapter 91 Wanton Baochan Lays a Cunning Plot Baoyu Makes Extravagant Answers When Catechized Xue Ke was in a quandary when giggling outside the window made him start.
That must be Baochan or Jingui, he thought.
Ill pay no attention and just see what they can do.
He listened for some time.
When there was no further sound, not venturing to eat any sweetmeats or drink the wine, he bolted the door and set about undressing.
Then the window paper rustled.
By now he was so flustered by Baochans tricks that he did not know what to do.
He peered at the window but could see nothing stirring and suspected that he had been imagining things.
Fastening his clothes again he sat down by the lamp to think hard, then picked up a sweetmeat and scrutinized it intently.
Turning his head abruptly, he saw that a patch of the window paper was wet.
He went over to have a look, and jumped for fright when suddenly someone outside blew into his face.
This was followed by more giggling.
Xue Ke hastily put out the lamp and, with bated breath, lay down.
Why dont you have some wine and a snack before turning in, Master Ke?
called the person outside.
He recognized Baochans voice but made no sound, pretending to be asleep.
How on earth could anyone be such a fool!
someone sneered after another couple of minutes.
He could not tell whether this was said by Baochan or Jingui, but it convinced him that they were up to no good.
He tossed and turned and did not fall asleep until after the fifth watch.
At daybreak, somebody knocked at his door.
Whos there?
he called.
When there was no response, he had to get up and open the door.
He found it was Baochan again, her hair dishevelled, her clothes loose.
She had on a tight-fitting bodice with a gold border and rows of long buttons and loops in front, over which she had tied a none too new dark green sash.
As she was not wearing a skirt, he could see her pomegranate-red trousers with floral designs and her new embroidered red slippers.
She had evidently not yet made her toilet but come early to fetch the hamper to avoid being seen.
Her appearance in such a costume dismayed Xue Ke.
You are up early, he faltered, forcing a smile.
She blushed but did not answer, simply putting the sweetmeats back into the hamper, which she then took away.
Supposing that she was vexed by his behaviour the previous night, he thought, Just as well.
If theyre annoyed, theyll give up and leave me in peace.
Feeling easier in his mind he called for water to wash in and decided to stay quietly at home for a couple of days, partly to rest, partly to avoid outside contacts.
For Xue Pans old associates were trying to cash in on the situation, now that there was only young Xue Ke to manage the familys affairs.
Some officiously offered to run errands for him others who could write legal plaints or knew a few clerks in government offices proffered their services to bribe the court yet others urged him to appropriate family funds or tried to blackmail him.
Each used a different approach.
He steered clear of these hangers-on as far as he could, but dared not refuse them outright for fear of future trouble.
So he felt constrained to lie low at home till orders came down from above.
But no more of this.
Let us revert to Jingui, who had sent Baochan with refreshments to sound out Xue Ke.
Baochan on her return reported in full what had happened.
As the young man had not risen to the bait, Jingui feared Baochan might despise her for this fiasco and therefore tried to cover up, changing her tune.
However, not wanting to relinquish Xue Ke, she sat there in silence wondering what to do.
Baochan did not expect Xue Pan back and was casting about for a lover, but had not disclosed this to Jingui for fear of the consequences.
Now that her mistress had made the first move, she saw it as a good chance to pre-empt Xue Ke herself, for then Jingui could hardly raise any objection.
That was why she had spoken provocatively to him.
When he seemed neither entirely unresponsive nor very forthcoming either, she had hesitated to do anything more rash.
Later, when he blew out the light and lay down to sleep, she went back, very disappointed, to tell Jingui and see what she would do.
Now that her mistress kept silent as if at a loss, she had to help her to bed and retire herself.
But that night how could she sleep?
She tossed and turned until she hit on a plan.
She would get up first thing the next morning to fetch the hamper, alluringly dressed and with her hair uncombed to reveal her drowsy charms.
While watching Xue Kes reaction she would put on a show of anger and ignore him but if he showed regret, naturally she would smooth his way and then she could get him first she was sure of that.
Such was her plan.
However, when she tried to execute it, he behaved just as properly as the previous night.
All she could do was act as if really affronted and take the dishes back.
She deliberately left the wine-pot, though, to provide an excuse for returning.
Jingui asked her, Did anyone see you fetch those things?
No, madam.
Did Master Ke ask you anything?
No.
Since Jingui had lain awake all night unable to think of a plan she now decided, If I go ahead with this affair, I may be able to keep it a secret from others, but how can I hide it from her?
Id better go shares with her, to keep her quiet.
Besides, I cant seek out Xue Ke myself, Ill need her as go-between.
So I may as well work out a sound plan with her.
She therefore asked with a smile, What is your honest opinion of Master Ke?
He strikes me as a fool.
Jingui laughed.
How can you run down a gentleman like that?
His ingratitude for your kindness gives me the right to, madam, Baoehan sniggered.
His ingratitude?
What do you mean?
You sent him goodies but he didnt eat them.
Wasnt that ungrateful?
She winked with a knowing smile.
Dont go imagining things, scolded Jingui.
I sent him those things to express my appreciation for all hes done for the master.
And I asked if anyone saw you because I was afraid there might be talk.
So I dont understand what you mean, speaking like that.
Dont get me wrong, madam, said Baochan with a smile.
Im your maid how could I be disloyal to you?
But you must keep this secret.
If word got out, it would be no joke.
You dirty-minded creature!
Jingui flushed.
I suppose youve taken a fancy to him, but want to use me as your go-between, is that it?
Think whatever you want, madam, but I honestly feel for you.
And if you really like him, I have a plan.
Just think, what rat wont steal oil?
All hes afraid of is the trouble thered be if the secret got out, making him lose face.
Take my advice, madam, and dont be impatient but do him certain favours from time to time.
Hes Master Pans younger cousin and not yet married.
If you show more concern and are friendly with him, how can anyone find fault?
Before long, hell naturally want to thank you.
Then you can prepare some refreshments in our room, and when Ive helped you to get him drunk, how can he run away.
If he refuses, well make a scene and accuse him of trying to seduce you.
Then of course, out of fright, hell have to do as we want.
If he still refuses, we can discredit him without spoiling our own reputation.
What do you think of this, madam?
Jingui, blushing crimson, cursed her laughingly, Little bitch!
You seem an old hand at seduction!
No wonder Master Pan, when he was home, couldnt bear to leave your side.
Baochan pouted then giggled, Here I am trying to help you, yet you call me such names!
After that, Jingui was so intent on inveigling Xue Ke that she lost interest in making scenes, and there was more peace in the household.
That day when Baochan went back to fetch the wine-pot, she acted most demurely and decorously.
Stealing a glance at her, Xue Ke regretted his suspicions and wondered, Could I, perhaps, have misjudged them?
If so, that was a poor return for their kindness, and Ive only myself to blame if they turn against me in future.
A couple of days passed very peacefully.
Whenever Xue Ke met Baochan, she would walk past with lowered head, not even lifting her eyes.
When he met Jingui, she would greet him very warmly.
This made the young man feel rather ashamed of himself.
But enough of this.
Baochai and her mother, for their part, were most astonished by Jinguis new sedateness and sudden cordiality to others.
Aunt Xue thought happily, When Pan married her, they must have transgressed somehow, which brought on all the trouble weve had these years.
Now hes in a bad way but luckily we have money and, with the Jia family helping, theres still some hope.
His wifes sudden change for the better may mean that his luck will change too.
Considering this, indeed, quite a miracle, one day after lunch, leaning on Tongguis arm, she went to call on Jingui.
When they entered the courtyard they heard her talking with a man.
Tonggui was smart enough to call out, Madam, heres the old lady to see you!
By now they had reached the door.
The sight of a figure flitting behind it made Aunt Xue step back in alarm.
Please come in, madam!
called Jingui.
This is no stranger here but my stepbrother.
Hes a villager, unused to company.
As he has never called on you yet, he came today meaning to pay his respects.
If its your brother, said Aunt Xue, ask him to join us.
Jingui told the young man, whose name was Xia San, to come out to meet her mother-in-law, and he raised clasped hands to greet her.
She returned his greetings and they sat down to talk.
How long have you been in the capital?
asked Aunt Xue.
My stepmother adopted me a couple of months ago, as she had no man in the house to see to things.
I only came to the capital the day before yesterday so I called on my sister today.
As he looked rather embarrassed, after sitting there for a while Aunt Xue got up.
Do stay longer, she urged, then turned to tell Jingui, since this is your brothers first visit here, you must keep him for a meal.
Jingui assented to this and Aunt Xue left.
As soon as she had gone Jingui told Xia San, Sit down.
Now were above-board, so Master Ke wont have to pry into our affairs.
I want you to buy something for me today, but dont let anyone see it.
Just leave it to me.
Provided you have the money, I can get whatever you want.
Dont boast!
If you get overcharged Im not having it.
When they had exchanged some more banter, Jingui kept Xia San to dinner, then gave him her commission and some instructions, after which he left.
Subsequently, Xia San was a frequent visitor.
And the old gatekeeper, having heard that this was Jinguis brother, usually neglected to report his arrival.
This led to endless trouble later on, but we need not go into that now.
One day a letter arrived from Xue Pan.
His mother opened it and told Baochai to read it.
He had written I am doing all right in the county jail, so mother neednt worry.
Yesterday a clerk in the county yamen told me that though the prefectural court has approved our plea I suppose you must have squared themthe provincial court has rejected it.
The chief secretary in the county was decent enough to write at once requesting a remission but the provincial governor has reprimanded the county magistrate.
Now the governor wants to try the case himself, and if that happens Ill be for it again.
You cant have bought over the provincial court.
So as soon as you get this, mother, ask someone to put in a word at once with the governor and get Xue Ke to come quickly.
Otherwise I shall be transferred to the provincial court.
Dont stint silver!
This is desperately urgent!
This reduced Aunt Xue once more to tears.
Baochai and Xue Ke while consoling her warned Theres no time to be lost!
She had to send Xue Ke to smooth matters over with the county court.
Servants were ordered to pack his luggage and weigh out silver at once so that he could set out that same night, as Li Xiang was already in the county, one of the pawnshop assistants was sent to accompany Xue Ke there.
In the bustle and confusion, Baochai helped with the packing herself in case the domestics should overlook anything, not lying down to rest till nearly dawn.
Being a cosseted girl from a wealthy family, the anxiety on top of her night-long exertions brought on a fever, she was unable to eat or even drink water.
Yinger hastily reported this to her mother.
Hurrying to Baochais side, Aunt Xue found her fearfully flushed, burning with fever and unable to speak.
She lost her head then and wept till she nearly fainted away.
Baoqin supported her and tried to console her while Xianglings tears flowed like a fountain too as she called Baochais name to awaken her.
For she was speechless, as if paralyzed, her eyes sunken, her nose blocked.
Doctors were called in to attend her and gradually, to their great relief, she recovered consciousness.
This news had alarmed both the Ning and the Rong Mansions.
First Xifeng sent over a maid with some Ten-Spices Restorative Pills then Lady Wang sent some Wonder-Working Powder.
The old lady, Lady Xing, Lady Wang and Madam You all sent maids to ask after Baochai but none of them let Baoyu know of this.
For seven or eight days she took medicine with very little effect, until bethinking herself of her Cool Fragrance Pills she took three of these and finally recovered.
When some time later Baoyu heard of her illness, as she was already better he did not call to see her.
And now a letter came from Xue Ke which Aunt Xue had read to her.
Instead of telling Baochai, for fear of worrying her, she went to enlist Lady Wangs help, then described her daughters illness.
After she had gone, Lady Wang passed on her request to her husband.
We can ask the ministry to help, but not the provincial authorities, said Jia Zheng.
The only way is to spend money.
That child Baochai is having a hard time, continued Lady Wang.
As shes betrothed to our family, I think we should fix up the wedding soon, before she ruins her health.
I agree, he replied.
But her familys in too much of a commotion now and as winter is nearly over, with the New Year in the offing, we have a good many affairs to attend to ourselves.
Suppose we send the betrothal gifts this winter and the wedding gifts next spring fix the date for the wedding after the old ladys birthday.
You can tell Aunt Xue this first.
The next day, Lady Wang let her sister know this proposal, and Aunt Xue agreed to it.
After lunch, the two of them called on the Lady Dowager.
When they had taken seats she asked Aunt Xue Have you just come over?
Actually I came yesterday, replied Aunt Xue.
But it was too late then to pay my respects.
Then Lady Wang repeated her husbands proposal, and the old lady thoroughly approved.
As Baoyu happened to come in just then, she asked him whether he had had his lunch.
I had it as soon as I got back just now, he said.
As Im off to school again now, I wanted to call on you first.
Besides, hearing that aunty was here, I wanted to pay my respects to her as well.
He asked Aunt Xue, Is Cousin Baochai better?
Yes, she is, was the answer.
As their conversation had stopped at his arrival, and as Aunt Xue seemed less cordial to him than before, Baoyu felt mystified.
Even if shes upset, why should they all keep so quiet?
he asked himself as he went back to school.
On his return that evening, having paid his respects to his elders, he went straight to Bamboo Lodge.
But when he raised the portire and went in there was only Zijuan there the inner room was empty.
Where is your mistress?
he asked.
With the old lady, said Zijuan.
When she heard that Madam Xue had called, she went over to pay her respects.
Didnt you go too, Master Bao?
I did, but I didnt see your young lady there.
She wasnt there?
No.
Where else could she have gone?
Thats hard to say.
He was on the point of leaving when Daiyu returned with Xueyan.
So youre back, cousin!
He turned to follow her in.
Daiyu invited him into the inner room and, when Zijuan had brought her a housecoat into which to change, she sat down.
Did you see aunty?
she asked.
Yes, I did.
Did she mention me?
No.
And not only that, she didnt treat me as warmly as she used to.
When I asked after Baochais illness, she simply smiled and said nothing.
Could she be annoyed because recently I havent called to see her?
Daiyu smiled.
You havent been?
I knew nothing about it at first.
A couple of days ago I heard but I didnt go.
What do you expect then?
But, honestly, he protested, the old lady, my mother and my father all told me not to.
I could hardly defy them could I?
If this were like the old days when we could slip through the small gate, I could easily call on her ten times a day but now that gates closed and going round from the front is inconvenient.
I dont suppose that occurred to her, said Daiyu.
But Ive always found Baochai most understanding.
Dont flatter yourself.
Shed be the last one to excuse you.
Especially as she was the invalid, not aunty.
Think how jolly it used to be before, when we wrote poems, enjoyed the flowers and drank in the Garden together.
Now shes cut off and her familys in trouble, yet when she falls so badly ill you behave as if nothing had happened!
How could she help being annoyed?
Does that mean we wont be on speaking-terms any more?
How am Ito know on what terms youll be?
I was just talking about natural reactions.
Baoyu started thinking this over, glassy-eyed, whereupon Daiyu ignored him, just telling one of her maids to add a fresh slab of incense to the brazier while she picked up a book to read.
After a while Baoyu frowned and stamped his foot.
Why was I born?
he exclaimed.
The world would be a better place without me!
She commented, When I exists, so do others and where there are people youll have no end of worries, fears, fancies and dreams, not to mention all sorts of entanglements.
I was only joking just now.
Simply seeing aunty in low spirits shouldnt make you start suspecting Baochai, should it?
Aunty called, not to entertain you, but because that lawsuit is weighing on her mind.
But by letting your fancy run away with you, you end up thinking the worst.
Baoyu laughed suddenly, as if seeing the light.
Quite right, quite right, he cried.
You are much more perspicacious than I am.
No wonder the other year when I was angry you put me through that Buddhist catechism, and I was stumped.
If ever I become a real Buddha, I shall still need your guidance.
She took this chance to sound him out.
Then let me ask you something, and see how you answer.
Baoyu crossed his legs and folded his hands as if in prayer, his eyes closed, his face solemn.
Go on, he said.
Suppose Cousin Baochai befriended you?
Suppose she cold-shouldered you?
Suppose she befriended you first but not later?
Suppose she befriends you now but not in future?
Suppose you befriend her but she cold-shoulders you?
Suppose you cold-shoulder her but she befriends you?
What would you do in all those different cases?
Baoyu thought for a while, then burst out laughing.
However much water there is in the stream, one gourdful will suffice me, was his reply indicating that, for him, she alone counted.
What if your gourd is drifted off by the water?
No, the gourd is not drifted off by the water.
The water flows where it wills and the gourd drifts of its own accord.
What if the stream runs dry and the pearl is lost?
My heart is a willow-catkin caught in the mud how can it dance like a partridge in the spring wind?
he answered affirming that he would be true to her.
The first Buddhist commandment is not to lie, she warned.
The Buddhist Trinity will bear me witness!
Daiyu lowered her head and was silent.
Then, outside the eaves, they heard a crow caw before winging off southeast.
Is that a good omen or a bad one?
wondered Baoyu.
Good fortune or bad in the affairs of men does not depend on a birds cry, she quoted.
They were interrupted by Qiuwen who came in to say, Please go back, sir.
His Lordship sent to ask whether youre back from school, and Sister Xiren said you were.
Youd better go quickly.
Baoyu sprang up in alarm and hurried out, and Daiyu did not venture to detain him.
To know what the upshot was, read the next chapter.
Chapter 92 Comments on the Lives of Worthy Women of Old Fill Qiaojie with Admiration Jia Zheng, Toying with a Mother Pearl, Discourses on the Rise and Fall of Great Houses Baoyu, as soon as he had left Bamboo Lodge, asked Qiuwen, What does my father want me for?
He doesnt want you, she chuckled.
Sister Xiren sent me to fetch you, and for fear you wouldnt come I made that up.
In relief he cried, Its all very well to fetch me, but why give me such a fright?
Back in Happy Red Court, Xiren wanted to know where he had been all this time.
With Miss Lin.
We got talking about Cousin Baochai thats what kept me there so long.
What were you discussing?
He told her then about his catechism.
You two have no sense, scolded Xiren.
Its all right to chat about family affairs or discuss certain lines of poetry but why go in for Buddhist cant?
Its not as if you were a monk.
You dont understand.
We have our own esoteric talk which no one else can join in.
If your esoteric repartee leads to squabbles, we shall have to try to guess your riddles too, she answered teasingly.
In the past I was young and she was childish too, so if I spoke tactlessly she used to flare up.
Now that Im more careful she never takes offence.
But recently shes stopped coming here so often, and I have to go to school.
Thats why, when we do happen to meet, we feel rather like strangers.
Thats how it should be, approved Xiren.
Now that youre both several years older, how can you go on behaving as if you were children?
He nodded.
I know.
Never mind about that now.
Tell me Has the old lady sent any message for me?
No, none.
She must have forgotten.
Tomorrows the first of the eleventh month, isnt it?
It used to be her rule every year to hold a cold-dispelling party that day, getting everybody together to drink and have fun.
Today I asked for leave from school.
As no message has come, shall I go tomorrow or not?
If I do, Ill have asked for leave all for nothing.
If I dont, and my father knows, hell call me an idler.
I think youd better go, she said.
Youre just beginning to study seriously, yet here you are wanting to rest.
My advice to you is to work harder.
Yesterday I heard your mother praise Master Lan for really concentrating on his books.
Every evening after he comes back from school, he reads and writes essays on his own, not sleeping till nearly dawn.
Youre much older than he is, and his uncle too.
If you lag behind him the old lady will be angry.
So youd better go to school tomorrow morning.
Sheyue objected, Its so cold, and hes already asked leave.
If he goes, the tutor will want to know why he asked for leave in the first place.
Itll look as if he fibbed so as to play truant.
Let him have a day off, I say.
Even if the old ladys forgotten, cant we have our own cold-dispelling party here?
Wouldnt that be fun?
If you take that line, complained Xiren, hell be even less willing to go.
Well, I like a days fun whenever I can get it.
How can I compare with you, working so hard to keep your good reputation for the sake of two extra ounces of silver a month?
Little bitch!
swore Xiren.
We were speaking seriously, but you go talking such nonsense.
This isnt nonsense.
Its you Im thinking of.
What do you mean?
If Master Bao goes to school, youll wait glumly longing for his return to cheer us all up again.
Its no use your playing the innocent.
I know you!
Before Xiren could answer back, one of the Lady Dowagers maids arrived.
The old lady says Master Bao neednt go to school tomorrow, she announced.
She has asked Aunt Xue to come over to help pass the time, and most likely all our young ladies will come too.
Miss Xiangyun, Miss Xiuyan and Madam Zhus cousins have been invited as well to this colddispelling party... Before she could finish Baoyu cried excitedly, You see?
The old lady always enjoyed this party.
So its on the level, my cutting school tomorrow.
Xiren could say nothing to this, and the maid went back.
After a spell of hard study Baoyu had been counting on having good fun the next day.
And the news that Aunt Xue would be coming made him assume that Baochai would be present too.
He said cheerfully, Lets turn in now, so that we can get up early tomorrow morning.
That night passed without incident.
The next day, sure enough, he went over early to pay his respects to the Lady Dowager and then to his parents.
When he reported that his grandmother had exempted him from attending school today, Jia Zheng raised no objections, and Baoyu slowly withdrew.
Once outside, he ran like the wind to the old ladys quarters.
None of the others had yet arrived except the nurse bringing Xifengs daughter Qiaojie, attended by several young maids.
Qiaojie paid her respects to the old lady then said, Mama told me to come on ahead, to greet you and keep you company, great-grandmama.
Shell be coming presently.
Good child!
said the Lady Dowager with a fond smile.
I got up early and all this time Ive been waiting, but so far only your Uncle Bao has come.
Pay your respects to your uncle, miss, prompted the nurse.
Qiaojie curtseyed to Baoyu, who returned her greeting.
Last night, prattled Qiaojie, I heard mama say she wants to invite you over for a talk, uncle.
To talk about what?
Mama says Nanny Li has been teaching me to read for several years, but she doubts if I really know many characters.
I told her, I can read all right.
Let me show you.
She thought I was making it up, though, and didnt believe me, saying I couldnt possibly have learned because I play around the whole day long.
I told her I dont find learning characters hard.
Even the Book of Filial Women is easy to read.
But mama says Im trying to fool her.
She wants you to test me, uncle, when you have time.
Theres a good child!
exclaimed the old lady, laughing.
Its because your mother cant read that she thought you were fooling her.
Get your uncle to test you tomorrow, and that 11 convince her.
How many characters do you know?
asked Baoyu.
More than three thousand.
Ive read the Book of Filial Women, and a fortnight ago I started on the Lives of Chaste Martyrs.
Can you understand them?
he asked.
If not, I can explain them to you.
Yes, as her uncle you should do that for your niece, the old lady approved.
We can pass over King Wens queen, began Baoyu.
Other virtuous and able queens were Queen Jiang who took off her trinkets and blames herself for the kings indolence, and Queen Wuyan who was plain but able to pacify the state of Qi.
As for talented women, there were Cao Dagu, Ban Jieyu, Cai Wenji and Xie Daoyun.
Meng Guang who wore a thorn hairpin and cloth skirt Bao Xuans wife who fetched water herself with a pitcher Tao Kans mother who cut off her hair and sold it to buy wine to entertain a guest and Ouyang Xius mother who used a grass stalk to write characters on the ground to teach her son to read and write, all could put up with poverty.
There were others who had a hard time like Princess Lechang who kept a broken mirror and was finally reunited with her husband, and Su Hui who wove a brocade with a palindrome on it to send to her husband and moved him.
While as for such dutiful daughters as Mulan who went to war in her fathers place and Cao E who plunged into the river to recover her fathers body, they are past counting.
Then there were many chaste ladies such as Caoshi, who cut off her own nose rather than remarry thats a story of the Wei State.
There were such famous beauties as Wang Qiang, Xi Shi, Fan Su, Xiaoman and Jiang Xian.
There were also jealous wives such as Ren Guis wife who burned up two concubines hair, and Liu Baiyus wife who jumped into the Luo River and died after hearing him praise the charming Goddess of the River Luo.
Of course Zhuo Wenjun and the girl with the red whisk 1 were known for their.... Thats enough, put in the old lady.
No need to go on.
If you list too many, how can she remember them all?
Ive read about some of those Uncle Bao named, but not all of them, said Qiaojie.
What he says about those Ive read about helps me understand them better.
As you obviously know how to real, theres no need to test you on that, he observed.
Besides, Ill have to go to school myself tomorrow.
I heard mama say too that our maid Hongyu used to work for you, Uncle Bao and after mama took her shes never sent you another girl instead.
Now mama wants to send you one called Wuer from the Liu family, but she doesnt know whether youll have her or not.
Just listen to her!
exclaimed Baoyu in delight.
Your mother can send anyone she likes.
Why ask me if Ill have her?
He turned to say laughingly to his grandmother, Judging by my nieces looks and intelligence, she should outdo even Cousin Xifeng in future.
Especially as she can read as well.
Its good when girls can read, agreed the old lady.
But needlework is more important for them.
Im learning that too from Nanny Liu, said Qiaojie.
Appliqu work, chain-stitch and so on.
Im not much good at it, but Im learning some different stitches.
In a family like ours, said the old lady, of course we dont have to do such chores ourselves, but still its best to know how to, so as not to have to depend on others in future.
Yes, great-grandmama.
Qiaojie would have liked Baoyu to explain the Lives of Chaste Martyrs to her, but he looked so preoccupied that she refrained from making this request.
Do you know what was preoccupying Baoyu?
It was the thought of Wuer.
When first she was to have come to Happy Red Court, she had been prevented by illness then when Lady Wang dismissed Qingwen, they dared not choose any maids who were good-looking.
Later Baoyu had visited Qingwen in Wu Guis house and seen Wuer and her mother take things to her, and on that occasion he had thought Wuer charming.
How lucky that Xifeng had remembered her and was sending her to replace Hongyu!
So the foolish youth lost himself in rapturous day-dreams.
The old lady, grown tired of waiting, now sent maids to fetch her other visitors and presently Li Wan and her girl cousins arrived, as well as Tanchun, Xichun, Xiangyun and Daiyu.
Having paid their respects to the Lady Dowager they greeted each other.
Only Aunt Xue was still missing.
Maids were sent to invite her, and she brought Baoqin with her.
Baoyu paid his respects to Aunt Xue and greeted Baoqin but looked in vain for Baochai and Xiuyan.
Why hasnt Cousin Baochai come?
asked Daiyu.
Aunt Xue gave the excuse that she was unwell and Xing Xiuyan had naturally not come because her future in-laws were present.
Baoyu was disappointed by Baochais absence, but as he had Daiyus company he dismissed her from his mind.
Soon Lady Xing and Lady Wang arrived too.
When Xifeng heard of this, as it would be remiss for her to lag behind Their Ladyships she sent Pinger to excuse her, saying that she had a temperature but would come a little later.
If shes not well, she neednt come, said the old lady.
Its time now for our meal.
Maids moved back the brazier and set out two tables in front of the old ladys couch.
This done, the party sat down in due order.
After dinner, they chatted around the fire, but there is no need to record their conversation.
Now what had kept Xifeng away?
In the beginning it was embarrassment at going later than Lady Xing and Lady Wang.
And then Lai Wangs wife had arrived.
Miss Yingchun has sent someone with her regards, she announced.
And the woman says shes not called on Their Ladyships but come straight here.
Not knowing what to make of this, Xifeng called the messenger in.
Is your mistress well?
she asked.
No, it wasnt Miss Yingchun who sent me, was the answer.
The fact is, Siqis mother has begged me to come to ask you a favour, madam.
Siqi has already been dismissed, so what can I do to help?
After Siqi left here she kept weeping all day long.
Then, the other day, that cousin of hers turned up.
At sight of him, her mother was furious she accused him of ruining her daughters life and grabbed hold of him to beat him.
Not a word did the young fellow say in self-defence.
Siqi hearing this came running out, bold as brass.
Its because of him that I was dismissed, she told her mother.
I hate him too for his heartlessness.
If you want to beat him now that hes come, youd better strangle me first!
Her mother swore, Shameless slut!
What do you want to do?
Siqi said, A woman can only marry once.
I slipped up and let him take advantage of me, so now I belong to him, and Ill never, never marry anyone else.
But what makes me angry is his lack of guts.
A man should be responsible for his actions.
Why run away?
If hed never shown up, Id have stayed single all my life.
If youd tried to marry me to someone else, ma, I should have killed myself.
Now that hes here, ask him what his intentions are.
If he hasnt had a change of heart, Ill kowtow farewell to you, ma, and you can count me as dead, for wherever he goes Ill go too, content even if we have to beg for food.
Her mother wept with rage and swore, Youre my daughter.
I wont let you marry him!
How dare you defy me?
Then the silly girl smashed her head against the wall so that her brains spilled out, and she died in a pool of blood.
Her mother wept, but as it was too late to save her she wanted her nephew to pay with his own life.
That nephew of hers was an odd fellow too.
He said, Dont worry.
Ive made some money outside, and I came back because of her I was true to her.
If you dont believe me, look here.
He took from his pocket a case of jewelry.
Her mother relented then and asked, If that was what you wanted, why didnt you say so?
He told her, Most women are fickle.
If Id said I had money, it might have tempted her.
Now I can see she was truly one in a thousand.
Ill leave you these jewels and go and buy a coffin for her.
Siqis mother took the jewels and let him go, not carrying on any more about her daughter.
Who could have imagined, though, that he got people to carry back two coffins.
What do you want two coffins for?
she asked.
He said with a smile, Ones not enough.
We need two.
The fact that he wasnt weeping made her think he was stupefied with grief.
But after laying Siqi in one coffin without so much as a whimper before anyone could see what he was doing he whipped out a small knife and cut his own throat!
Siqis mother sobbed bitterly then with remorse.
And now the whole neighbourhood knows of this and they want to report it to the authorities.
Shes frantic, thats why shes sent me to beg you to help.
Shell be coming later to kowtow her thanks.
What a silly girl!
exclaimed Xifeng in amazement.
And up against such a simpleton too its too bad!
No wonder she took it so calmly when they found those things during the search that day.
Id no idea she was such a strong character!
Actually Ive no time to mind other peoples business, but what youve told me really makes my heart bleed.
All right then, go and tell Siqis mother that Ill get my husband to send Lai Wang to straighten things out for her.
Only when Xifeng had sent this woman away did she go over to the old ladys place.
To return to Jia Zheng.
He was playing draughts one day with Zhan Guang, and both still had about the same number of pieces but in one corner the issue was not yet decided and each was trying to enclose that sector.
A gateman came in to announce, Mr. Feng is waiting outside to see you, sir.
Show him in, ordered Jia Zheng.
The man withdrew to do so, and as Feng Ziying entered Jia Zheng rose to welcome him.
Having taken a seat in the study, Feng saw that they had been playing draughts.
Please go on with your game, he urged them.
Id like to watch.
My game isnt worth watching, said Zhan Guang with a smile.
Dont be so modest, replied Feng.
Please carry on.
Have you come on business?
Jia Zheng wanted to know.
Nothing of any importance.
Please go on with your game, uncle, and I can learn by watching.
Jia Zheng told Zhan, Master Feng is a good friend of ours.
As hes in no hurry, lets finish this game and then we can have a chat.
You can watch from the side, Master Feng.
Are you playing for stakes?
Yes, we are, said Zhan.
In that case I mustnt interfere.
It doesnt matter if you do, joked Jia Zheng.
Hes lost over ten taels already, but he never pays up.
I shall have to make him stand us a meal some day instead.
Thats all right, chuckled Zhan.
Do you gentlemen both play from scratch?
asked Feng.
We used to.
Jia Zheng smiled.
But he kept losing.
Now Im handicapped by giving him two pieces at the start, yet he still loses.
From time to time he revokes too, and if I challenge him he gets worked up.
Thats not true!
protested Zhan Guang laughingly.
Just wait and see, said Jia Zheng.
They played as they chatted, and when the game was finished they counted their pieces.
After deducting the one with which he had opened, Zhan had lost by seven pieces.
Feng remarked, You lost out trying to enclose uncles pieces.
And so, being less vulnerable, he got the upper hand.
Excuse us for ignoring you, Jia Zheng apologized.
Now we can talk.
I havent seen you for some time, uncle, so I called in the first place to pay my respects, said Feng.
Another reason is that the vice-prefect of Guangxi has come to the capital with four novelties from the south or overseas, all fit to present to the court.
One is a carved ebony screen with twenty-four leaves.
Theyre inlaid not with jade but with the finest marble carved with landscapes, figures, pavilions, flowers and birds.
On each leaf are fifty to sixty girls in palace costume, so the screen is called Spring Dawn in the Han Palace.
All the girls features, their hands and the draperies are most delicately carved.
The embellishments and designs are excellent too.
It seems to me just the thing for the main hall of your honourable Grand View Garden.
Then theres a clock more than three feet high in the form of a boy holding a time-piece, which announces each hour in turn, while inside some clock-work figures play musical chimes.
As both these are heavy objects, I didnt bring them.
But the two things I have with me are quite intriguing too.
With that he produced a brocade box swathed in white silk floss and, having removed some padding, showed them a glass case in which was a gold stand mounted on red crepe.
On the stand lay a dazzling bright pearl, as large as a dried longan.
This is called a mother pearl, Feng told them, then asked for a plate.
Zhan Guang at once passed him a black lacquer tea-tray.
Will this do?
Yes, thats fine.
Feng took a silk pouch from his pocket and emptied all the pearls in it on to the tray, then placed the mother pearl in the middle and set the tray on the table.
At once, all the small pearls rolled over and over until they were close to the big one, propping it up, all without exception nestling against the big pearl.
Fantastic!
exclaimed Zhan.
Ive heard of this, said Jia Zheng.
This is how it came by its name as the mother of pearls.
Now Feng turned to the page who had accompanied him.
Where is that box?
he called.
The page at once brought over a rosewood box.
When opened it disclosed, on a lining of striped silk, some folded blue gauze.
What is this?
asked Zhan.
A curtain of mermaid-gauze.
When Feng took it out of the box, the curtain each fold less than five inches long was less than half an inch thick.
He unfolded it layer by layer.
And by the time he had unfolded some ten layers, it was already too big for the table.
See, there are two more folds, he said.
It can only be hung in a room with a high ceiling.
This is woven of mermaid-silk.
In the heat of summer, hung in the hall, it will keep out all flies and mosquitoes.
It is light and transparent too.
Dont spread it all out, interposed Jia Zheng, or youll have trouble folding it up again.
Then Zhan helped Feng refold the curtain.
The price for these four things isnt exorbitant, Feng said.
Hes willing to sell them for twenty thousand taels ten thousand for the mother pearl, five thousand for the curtain, and five thousand for the screen and the clock combined.
We cant afford that!
exclaimed Jia Zheng.
You are related to the Imperial House, said Feng.
Couldnt they use things of this sort in the Palace?
There are plenty of things they could use, but where is so much money to come from?
Jia Zheng retorted.
Wait, though, till Ive sent these inside to show the old lady.
Certainly, Feng agreed.
Jia Zheng ordered a servant to ask Jia Lian to take the pearl and curtain to the old lady and Lady Xing, Lady Wang and Xifeng were invited over to see them.
They examined each in turn.
He has two other novelties a screen and a musical clock, Jia Lian informed them.
Hes asking twenty thousand taels for all four.
Of course theyre good, said Xifeng.
But we havent so much spare money.
And were not like those provincial governors who have to send tribute to court.
In fact, for years Ive been thinking that a family like ours should invest in some real estate sacrificial land, manor houses or burial sites.
Then in future, if things go badly for our descendants, theyll have something to fall back on and wont be bankrupted.
This is my idea, but I dont know whether the old lady and the masters and mistresses agree or not.
If the gentlemen want to buy these thats up to them.
The old lady and the rest agreed with her.
Then Ill take them back, said Jia Lian.
It was Lord Zheng who told me to bring these to show the old lady, thinking they could be presented to the Palace no one spoke of buying them to keep ourselves.
But before the old lady says a word you come out with all that ill-omened talk!
He took the things away, simply telling Jia Zheng that the old lady did not want them.
Then Jia Zheng told Feng, These are excellent things, but we havent got the money.
Ill keep my eyes open, though, and if I find someone who wants them Ill let you know.
Feng had to put pearl and curtain away and sit down again to make polite conversation, but feeling disheartened he soon rose to take his leave.
Do stay and have dinner with us, urged Jia Zheng.
I dont want to put you to too much trouble, uncle.
Its no trouble at all.
Just at this point, a servant announced Lord She even as he walked in, and there was the usual exchange of civilities.
Presently wine and dishes were brought in and the gentlemen started drinking.
After four or five cups, mention was made again of the novelties from the south.
Such things are hard to dispose of, remarked Feng.
Apart from distinguished families like yours, who else can afford to buy them?
Thats not necessarily so, Jia Zheng demurred.
Jia She added, Our family isnt what it was were simply keeping up appearances.
How is Master Zhen of the East Mansion?
Feng inquired.
Last time I met him, in the course of conversation he mentioned that his sons second wife cant compare with his first from the Qin family.
I forgot to ask which family the new young mistress comes from.
Shes from a noble family too, said Jia Zheng.
Shes the daughter of old Mr. Hu, who was Governor of the Metropolitan Circuit.
I know Mr. Hu, replied Feng.
His household isnt too well regulated.
Still, that doesnt matter if the girl herself is good.
Jia Lian changed the subject by saying, Ive heard from someone in the cabinet that Yucun is to be promoted again.
Good, said Jia Zheng.
But is this news reliable, I wonder?
There must be something in it, insisted ha Lian.
I was at the Ministry of Civil Affairs earlier on, and I heard the same talk, confirmed Feng.
Is respected Master Yucun a member of your honourable clan?
Yes, he is, said Jia Zheng.
A close relation or a distant connection?
Its a long story.
Hes a native of Huzhou Prefecture in Zhejiang, who moved to Suzhou and didnt make out too well there but a certain Zhen Shiyin befriended him and helped him out.
Then he passed the palace examination and was appointed a magistrate, after which he married one of the Zhen familys maids his present wife is his second.
Then Zhen Shiyin lost all his money and seems to have disappeared.
At the time when Yucun was dismissed from his post, he didnt know our family.
My brother-in-law Lin Ruhai, who was Salt Commissioner of Yangzhou then, engaged him as a tutor for his daughter.
When word came that he might be reinstated, he decided to return to the capital and as my niece happened to be coming to visit us, her father asked Yucun to escort her here and wrote a letter recommending him to me.
Since he made a fairly good impression on me we saw quite a bit of each other.
The strange thing was that Yucun knew our whole family history from the start all about our Rong and Ning Mansions, the inmates of each, and different happenings here.
So we were soon on a familiar footing.
He added with a smile, He very soon learned how to climb the official ladder, getting himself promoted from the post of a prefect to that of a censor and then, in another few years, becoming Vice-Minister of Civil Affairs and Minister of War.
After that, for some reason, he was demoted three ranks.
Now it seems he is going up again.
Prosperity and ruin, observed Feng, are as unpredictable as success or failure in ones official career.
Yucun counts as one who has got off lightly, rejoined Jia Zheng.
There are other families much like ours, the Zhen family for instance, who had the same achievements to their credit, the same hereditary honours, the same way of life, with whom we were very close.
A few years ago when they came to the capital, they would send people to call on us and they cut quite a dash.
Before long, though, their property was confiscated and no more has been heard of them ever since.
We dont know whats become of the family and cant help worrying about them.
Dont you think this must strike fear into officials?
Well, our family should be safe, ha She observed.
Of course, your honourable family has nothing to fear, Feng assured him.
You have Her Highness in the Palace to watch over you, and a host of good friends and kinsmen.
Besides, not one of your family from the old lady down to your young masters is grasping or niggardly.
That may be so, said Jia Zheng.
But they have no virtue or ability either.
How long can they go on just living on their capital?
Dont talk that, protested Jia She.
Lets have some more drinks.
They drank a few more cups, then rice was served.
After they had finished the meal and drunk some tea, Fengs page came over to whisper something to him, and he asked permission to leave.
Jia She asked the page what he had said.
Its snowing outside, sir, and the first watch has sounded.
Jia Zheng sent a servant to look, who reported that more than one inch of snow had fallen.
Have you put those valuables away?
Jia Zheng asked.
Yes, uncle, said Feng.
If your honourable family has any use for them, we can of course negotiate the price.
Ill keep it in mind.
Ill wait to hear from you.
Its cold please dont see me out.
Jia Zheng and Jia She told Jia Lian to see him out.
If you wish to know the sequel, read the next chapter.
Chapter 93 A Servant of the Zhen Family Offers His Services to the Jias A Scandal in Water Moon Convent Is Exposed After Feng Ziying had gone, Jia Zheng summoned the gateman.
Today the Duke of Linan sent invitations to a banquet, he said.
Do you know what the occasion is?
I asked, sir, replied the gateman.
Its no special celebration, but a company of young actors a company with a fine reputation has come to the Prince of Nanans Mansion and the duke is so pleased with them that hes putting on two days performances for his friends enjoyment.
It should be very lively.
Theres probably no need to send presents.
Jia She came over at this point to ask Jia Zheng if he would be going the next day.
I suppose well have to, was the reply, to show our appreciation.
Just then the gateman came back to report, The secretary from your yamen has come to ask you to go there tomorrow, sir, as the minister has some business and will need you earlier than usual.
Very well.
Then two of the familys bailiffs came in and paid their respects.
After kowtowing they stood there at attention.
Are you two from Hao Village?
Jia Zheng asked.
Yes, sir.
Instead of inquiring their business, -he chatted with Jia She till the latter rose to go and was escorted home by servants with lanterns.
Jia Lian then asked the bailiffs, Well, what have you come for?
We collected the rent in kind for the tenth month, they reported.
It should have arrived here tomorrow, but outside the city our carts were commandeered and, when we protested, all the things on them were dumped on the ground.
We told them these werent merchants carts but were delivering rent to your mansions.
Still they paid no attention.
When we told the carters to drive on, some runners beat them up and made off with our .two carts.
So weve come to report this, sir, and ask you to send to the yamen to get them back.
Those lawless runners should be punished too.
Youve no idea, sir, how hard it is on merchants.
All their goods are unloaded, regardless, and their carts are driven away.
If the carters so much as murmur, they get their heads smashed in.
Outrageous!
swore Jia Lian.
He there and then wrote a note and told the servants, Take this to the local yamen and demand the return of the carts as well as the produce.
We wont stand for it if one single thing is missing!
And send Zhou Rui here at once!
But Zhou Rui was absent.
And when they looked for Lai Wang, they found he had gone out after lunch and not yet returned.
Not one of the bastards is here!
swore Jia Lian.
They do not work just gorge themselves all the year round.
He ordered his pages, Go and find them, quick!
Then he went home to sleep.
The next day the Duke of Linan sent over again to invite them.
Jia Zheng told Jia She, I have business in my yamen.
And Lian cant go either, he has to stay in to deal with this commandeering of our carts.
For politeness sake, youd better take Baoyu over for the day.
Jia She nodded.
Thats all right.
Then Jia Zheng sent for Baoyu.
Youre to go with Lord She to the opera in the Duke of Linans place, he told him.
Baoyu, only too delighted, changed his clothes and went off with Beiming, Saohong and Chuyao to present himself to Jia She and pay his respects.
They drove to the dukes mansion, where the gateman announced their arrival then ushered them in.
Jia She led Baoyu into the courtyard in which a lively party had assembled.
After they had paid their respects to the duke and greeted the other guests, everyone sat down to talk.
Then the manager of the company stepped forward with an ivory tablet and a compendium of their repertoire.
Falling on one knee he said Please make your choice, gentlemen.
In order of seniority they selected operas.
And when it came to Jia Shes turn, the manager caught sight of Baoyu.
He hurried straight over to him and saluted.
Please choose a couple of scenes, Master Bao, he said.
This man with his clear complexion and red lips was fresh as lotus taken from the water, graceful as a jade tree in the breeze.
Baoyu recognized him at one glance as Jiang Yuhan.
He had heard not long before that Jiang had brought a company of young actors to the capital, but his old friend had failed to come to see him.
He could hardly stand up in this company to greet him.
When did you come back?
he asked him with a smile.
Jiang pointing at himself murmured, Surely you know, Second Master.
As they could not very well converse in public, Baoyu just picked one item at random.
After Jiang Yuhan had moved on, there was some speculation about him.
Who is he?
someone asked.
He used to play young ladies, another man answered.
Now that hes too old for that, he acts as manager instead and sometimes takes young mens roles.
Hes put aside a tidy sum of money and owns a couple of shops, but he wont give up his profession and goes on managing an opera company.
1 suppose he must have married, one guest remarked.
No, hes not engaged yet.
Hes got this idea fixed that marriage is for keeps, affecting ones whole life, not something to enter into casually so his wife, regardless of her social status, must measure up to his talent.
Thats why hes still unmarried.
Baoyu wondered who the lucky girl would be to marry a man of his ability.
Then the performance started.
And very lively it was too, with Kunqu, Yiqiang, Gaoqiang and Ban Zi operas.
1 At noon tables were set out for the feast, and when they had watched a little longer Jia She rose to leave.
Its still early, said the duke, coming over to press him to stay.
And Ive heard that Jiang Yuhan is going to play in their best item a scene from The Oil-Vendor and the Courtesan.
Baoyu hearing this was most eager to stay, and so Jia She resumed his seat.
Then, sure enough, Jiang Yuhan came on in the role of the oil-vendor Qin, and gave an excellent performance of how the young man cared for the courtesan when she was drunk, after which the two of them drank and sang together in affectionate intimacy.
Baoyu was not interested in the heroine, having eyes only for the young hero.
And he was quite enraptured by his singing, for Jiang Yuhan had a resonant voice, clear enunciation and good sense of rhythm.
By the time this scene ended he was firmly convinced that Jiang was a romantic, completely unique.
He thought, The Book of Music rightly says, Stirred feelings find expression in sound, and when the sound follows a pattern we call it music.
So sounds, notes and music take some understanding, and a study has to be made of their origin.
Poetry can convey emotions, but it cant thrill us to the marrow.
In future I really must make a study of music.
His reverie was interrupted by Jia She rising to leave.
As their host could not prevail on him to stay, Baoyu had no choice but to go back with him.
On their return Jia She went home.
And Baoyu, paying his duty call on his father, found him just back from the ministry questioning ha Lian about the seizure of their carts.
Jia Lian said, I sent servants there today with my card, but the magistrate was out.
His factotum said, His Excellency knew nothing about this, and gave no orders for the requisition of carts.
Its all the fault of those trouble-making scoundrels who take unfair advantage of people outside.
As these are His Lordships carts, Ill send at once to investigate and guarantee to return them as well as the things tomorrow.
If there is any delay, I shall report it to His Excellency and have them severely punished.
But since he is away now, I hope His Lordship will be understanding, as it would be better not to trouble my master.
Without some official order, who would dare do such a thing?
demanded Jia Zheng.
You dont understand, sir, said.Jia Lian.
Its like this everywhere outside the city.
Im sure theyll return our property tomorrow.
With that he withdrew.
Then Baoyu paid his respects to his father, who questioned him briefly before sending him to call on his grandmother.
As the stewards had been out the day before when Jia Lian sent for them, he had summoned them all and now they were ready waiting.
Having cursed them roundly he told the chief steward Lai Da, Bring me the roster of servants and check their names then write an announcement for them all to read.
If anyone sneaks off without asking leave and isnt on hand when called, holding up our business, youre to beat him for me and drive him out forthwith!
Yes, sir!
Yes, sir!
Lai Da went out to pass on this warning, and thereafter the servants were more circumspect.
Soon after this, a man came to the gate wearing a felt cap, blue cotton clothes and slippers with cloth soles and leather uppers.
He saluted the servants on duty, who looked him over from head to foot before asking where he came from.
From the Zhen family in the south, he answered.
Ive a letter from my master which Id like to trouble you gentlemen to take in to His Lordship.
When they heard this they stood up and offered him a seat.
You must be tired.
Sit down, they urged.
Well see to it for you.
One gateman went in and reported this, handing Jia Zheng the letter which he opened and read ... Our families have been long-standing friends sharing similar tastes, and I have the greatest admiration for you.
My criminal incompetence deserved punishment by a thousand deaths, but instead the court with gracious clemency sent me to this border region.
Now our fortunes have declined and our family is scattered.
Our servants son Bao Yong, who used to serve me, though he has no outstanding ability is quite honest.
If you would take him on, enabling him to support himself, I should be infinitely grateful for your kindness.
This is my letters sole purpose.
I shall write more fully later.
After reading this Jia Zheng smiled.
We were thinking that our staff is too large, he said.
However, we cant turn away someone recommended by the Zhen family.
He told the gateman, Bring him here.
Well keep him and find him some appropriate work.
So the gateman fetched Bao Yong, who kowtowed three times to Jia Zheng.
Getting up again he said, My master sends his respects, sir.
Then he went down on one knee in salute, saying, Bao Yong pays his respects, sir.
Jia Zheng asked after Mr. Zhens health and scrutinized Bao Yong as he stood there in an attitude of respect.
Just over five feet and broad-shouldered, he had thick eyebrows, protuberant eyes and a low forehead.
His face was bearded and swarthy.
Have you always been in the Zhen family or only worked there for a few years?
Jia Zheng asked.
I have always been their man, sir.
Then why do you want to leave them now?
I didnt want to, but my master insisted.
He said, You wouldnt agree to going anywhere else, but serving the Jia family will be like serving us.
So I came, sir.
Your master should never have got into such trouble, reducing him to these straits.
If I may make bold to say so, its because my masters too good.
He always treats people honestly, and that landed him in trouble.
Surely its good to be honest.
But because he was too honest, sir, nobody liked him and he offended some people.
Well, in that case Heaven will give him his due deserts, Jia Zheng laughed.
Before Bao Yong could reply he went on to ask, Is it true, as I heard, that your younger masters name is also Baoyu?
Yes, sir.
Is he doing well?
As for our Master Bao, sir, thats a strange story.
Hes like his father too honest.
As a child, what he liked best was playing about with girls, and though his parents gave him several good beatings he wouldnt mend his ways.
That year our mistress came to the capital, Master Bao fell very ill.
He lost consciousness for so long that his father was frantic and had all the funeral preparations made.
Then, luckily, he came round.
But he started raving that hed met a girl by an archway who took him into a temple, inside which were many cabinets filled with albums.
Then going into a room he saw countless girls whod all turned into ghosts or skeletons.
That set him screaming with fright.
As soon as our master saw that hed come to he gave him good medical treatment, and gradually he recovered.
After that, when our master sent him off to amuse himself with the girls, as he always used to, we discovered that hed changed he no longer enjoyed his old pleasures but much preferred to study.
Even when they tried to coax him away from his books, he took no interest at all.
So now, little by little, hes learning to help his father manage the household.
Jia Zheng digested this in thoughtful silence.
Go off and rest now, he said presently.
When a task comes up that you can do, of course well assign you some duties.
Bao Yong thanked him and withdrew, going out with the gateman to rest.
But no more of this.
One morning, Jia Zheng rose early and was setting off to his yamen when he noticed the servants at the gate whispering and muttering among themselves as if they had some news for him which they dared not report outright.
He called them over.
What is this hole-and-corner business?
he demanded.
We hardly dare tell you, sir, one of them answered.
Why not?
Out with it!
This morning when we got up and opened the gate, we found a sheet of paper pasted on it, covered with scurrilous writing.
The idea!
exclaimed Jia Zheng.
What was it?
Dirty talk about Water Moon Convent, sir.
Bring me the paper, he ordered.
We tried to take it down, but it was glued on too firmly so we copied it out, then soaked the .paper to get it off.
Just now Li De brought another sheet to show us the same as the one on the gate.
We dare not hide it from you, sir.
They presented the paper, and he read -748 Jia Qin, a young supervisor, To Water Moon Convent came.
One male among so many females, Hes free to drink, whore and game.
This worthless young master set in charge Is giving the Rong Mansion a bad name!
So enraged by this that his mind reeled, Jia Zheng ordered the servants to say nothing about it but to make a quiet search of the walls of the alleys in the vicinity.
He then sent for Jia Lian, who came hurrying over.
Without any preliminaries Jia Zheng asked him, Have you ever checked up on those novices in Water Moon Convent?
No, said ha Lian.
Qins always been in charge of them.
Do you think him capable of such a trust?
Since you ask, sir, I suppose he must have fallen down on the job.
Jia Zheng sighed.
Look whats written on this poster!
Jia Lian read it and exclaimed, Could this be true?
Just then along came Jia Rong with an envelope marked Confidential addressed to Jia Zheng.
When they opened it, they found another copy of the same anonymous lampoon as that pasted on the gate.
Jia Zheng said, Tell Lai Da to go at once with three or four carriages to the convent, to bring back all those novices.
Dont let word of this get out.
Just tell them that theyre wanted in the Palace.
Lai Da went off to carry out these orders.
Now the young Buddhist and Taoist novices when first they went to the convent had been in the charge of an old abbess who daily taught them litanies and invocations.
But because the Imperial Consort never sent for them, they gradually became lax in their devotions and as they grew older they began to take an interest in men.
Jia Qin was a romantic.
In his view, it had simply been a childish whim which made these actresses enter a convent, and accordingly he went to daily with them.
As Fangguan, genuinely devout, was deaf to his enticements, he turned his attention to the other girls.
Among these were a Buddhist named Qinxiang and a Taoist named Hexian, both of whom had seductive charm.
So Jia Qin became their lover and whenever they had the time they would get together and learn how to sing and play the fiddle.
Since this was the middle of the tenth month and Jia Qin had just brought the monthly allowance for the convent, he hit on an idea.
Ive brought your allowance, he told the girls.
But as I cant get back to town today, Ill have to spend the night here.
Its very cold, isnt it?
So suppose we sit up together to enjoy these sweetmeats and wine that Ive brought with me?
The novices, very pleased, set tables ready and invited the older nuns too.
Fangguan was the only one who declined to join them.
After a few cups Jia Qin proposed playing some drinking games.
We dont know how to, said Qinxiang and the others.
Lets just play the guessing-fingers game, and whoever loses must drink.
Wouldnt that be simpler?
The older nuns objected, Its only just after noon, and it wouldnt look right to have a rowdy party.
Lets drink a few cups, then those who like can leave first.
Those who want to keep Master Qin company can drink all they please this evening, and we wont interfere.
Just then a serving-woman hurried in.
Break this up, this minute!
she cried.
Heres Mr. Lai from the Jia Mansion!
The novices hastily set about clearing the tables and urged Jia Qin to hide.
But emboldened by a few cups of wine he blustered, I came to bring the monthly allowance.
Im not afraid!
While he was still speaking, in came Lai Da.
The sight that met his eyes enraged him.
But as Jia Zheng had enjoined strict secrecy, he forced himself to smile.
So you are here too, Master Qin, he said.
What brings you here, Mr. Lai?
asked Jia Qin who had risen to his feet.
Im glad youre here, sir.
Tell these novices to get ready at once to drive to town.
Theyre wanted in the Palace.
This puzzled them all, but before they could question him the steward continued, Time presses.
Be quick about it, or we may be shut out.
The novices had to mount the carriages then.
And Lai Da, riding a big mule, escorted them back to the city.
Meanwhile Jia Zheng, too angry to go to his yamen, sat alone in his study sighing over this scandal, and Jia Lian felt constrained to stay with him.
Then a gateman came in to announce, His Lordship Zhang who should be on duty in the yamen this evening is ill, sir, and they would like you to take over for him.
Jia Zheng was waiting for Lai Das return to deal with Jia Qin.
Exasperated at having to go back on duty now, he made no answer.
Jia Lian stepped up to him.
Lai Da left after lunch, and the convent is some twenty ii from town so even if he hurries he cant get back till the second watch, he said.
If you are needed at the yamen, sir, you can go with an easy mind.
When Lai Da gets back.
Ill tell him to detain the novices and keep the matter quiet.
You can deal with them when you come home tomorrow.
If Jia Qin comes, we neednt tell him anything either, but see how he accounts for himself to you tomorrow.
Jia Zheng seeing reason in this went off to his yamen, finally giving Jia Lian a chance to go home.
He made his way slowly back, inwardly blaming Xifeng for recommending Jia Qin but as she was ill he knew he would have to wait before reproaching her.
However, through the servants gossiping word of this-had already reached the inner chambers.
Pinger, who heard it first, at once told Xifeng.
After a bad night Xifeng was in low spirits, worried over the trouble .at Iron-Threshold Temple.
The news that an anonymous lampoon had been put up outside alarmed her.
What does it say?
she asked quickly.
Here Pinger slipped up, Its nothing important, she said casually.
Something to do with Steamed-Bread Convent.
Xifeng with her guilty conscience was so consternated by this that she could not speak.
She came over dizzy and after a fit of coughing spat out a mouthful of blood.
In a fluster Pinger corrected herself.
Its only some problem over those Buddhist and Taoist novices in Water Moon Convent.
Why should that upset you so, madam?
Ai!
You fool!
exclaimed Xifeng in her relief.
Was it Water Moon Convent or Steamed-Bread Convent?
Make up your mind!
I misheard it the first time, then discovered that it was Water Moon Convent, not Steamed-Bread Convent.
Just now, by a slip of the tongue, I gave you the wrong name.
I knew it must be Water Moon Convent.
What have I to do with Steamed-Bread Convent?
I did put Qin in charge of that convent.
Probably hes been helping himself to their monthly allowance.
I didnt hear talk of that but of some scandal.
Well, I care even less about that.
Where is Master Lian?
They say Lord Zheng is so angry that he cant very well leave him.
When I learned there was trouble I told the maids they mustnt blab about it but who knows whether Their Ladyships have heard this talk or not.
It seems the master ordered Lai Da to fetch those girls back.
Ive sent to find out whats up.
As youre unwell, madam, I dont think you need bother about their affairs.
Just then Jia Lian came in.
Xifeng wanted to question him, but his scowling face made her pretend to know nothing about this business.
While Jia Lian was having supper Lai Wang came in to report, Theyre asking for you outside, sir.
Lai Da is back.
Is Qin with him?
asked Jia Lian.
Yes, hes come too.
Go and tell Lai Da that the master has gone to his yamen.
The girls are to stay in the Garden for the time being.
Tomorrow, when the master comes back, theyll be sent to the Palace.
Tell Qin to wait for me in the inner study.
Then Lai Wang went off.
When ha Qin went to the study, the way the servants pointed at him and nudged each other made him doubt this talk about a summons to the Palace.
He asked what was afoot, but no one would tell him.
He was puzzling over this when Jia Lian came in and, having paid his respects, Jia Qin stood at attention.
We dont know what Her Highness wants these girls for, he said.
I brought them as fast as I could.
Luckily I took them their allowance today and was still there, so I came back with Lai Da.
I suppose you know all this, uncle.
What do I know?
Youre the one in the know, Jia Lian rapped out.
Jia Qin, though mystified, dared not ask his meaning.
Fine goings-on!
Jia Lian fumed.
The master is furious!
Ive done nothing wrong, uncle.
I take them their allowance every month, and the girls keep up their devotions.
Jia Lian saw that he was in the dark, and as they had been playmates together he sighed.
Shut up!
Take a look at this.
He drew the lampoon from his boot and tossed it to him.
Jia Qin picked it up and read it.
Whos behind this?
he faltered, pale with fright.
I havent offended anyone why go for me like this?
I only go there once a month to take them the money.
These charges are sheer lies.
But if the master comes back and has me beaten up, I shall die of the injustice!
Worse still, if my mother hears of it shell have me beaten to death!
As they were alone he went down on his knees to plead, Have a heart, uncle!
Save me!
He then kowtowed repeatedly, tears streaming from his eyes.
Jia Lian reflected, This is the sort of thing the master abominates.
If investigation proves that its true, there will be a fearful scene.
If the scandal gets out, our reputation will suffer and that lampoonist will become even bolder.
Then well have a lot more trouble later on.
It would be better, while the masters on duty, to fix up some way with Lai Da to hush it up so as to avoid further trouble.
So far no evidence has been produced.
His mind made up he said, Dont try to fool me.
Do you think I dont know the devilry youve been up to?
If the master beats you to make you confess, your only way out is to refuse to admit it.
Get up now, you shameless creature!
Soon after this Lai Da joined them, and Jia Lian discussed his plan with him.
Master Qin has really behaved outrageously, said Lai Da.
When I went to the convent just now they were drinking!
The charges in that lampoon must be true.
Hear that, Qin?
said Jia Lian.
Lai Da wouldnt make that up, would he?
Jia Qin blushed and dared not say a word.
Then Jia Lian urged Lai Da, Just say that you found Master Qin at home and so you brought him along, but you havent seen me.
Tomorrow you must try to persuade the master not to question those girls, but instead to fetch a broker to take them away and sell them.
If Her -Highness asks for them, we can buy some others.
Thinking this over, Lai Da realized that a scandal would do no good but would further damage the familys reputation.
Accordingly he agreed.
Then Jia Lian said to Jia Qin, Go with Mr. Lai and do whatever he tells you.
Jia Qin kowtowed his thanks and went off with the steward, to whom he kowtowed again when they came to a quiet spot.
Youre really gone too far, Master Qin, declared Lai Da.
I dont know whom you offended to land yourself in this mess.
Just think, what enemies have you?
Jia Qin racked his brains and suddenly thought of one.
To know who it was, read the next chapter.
Chapter 94 The Lady Dowager Gives a Feast to Celebrate the Strange Blossoming of the Crab-Apple Trees The Loss of Baoyus Jade of Spiritual Understanding Heralds Trouble After Lai Da had taken Jia Qin off, the night passed without incident as they waited for Jia Zhengs return.
The novices, overjoyed to be back in the Garden, hoped to have a good look round before going to the Palace the next day.
However, Lai Da ordered the matrons and pages there to keep watch and to supply them with food but not allow them to stir a single step.
So the girls, although puzzled by this, had to stay there quietly until it was light.
The maids in the different lodges in the Garden had heard of their arrival and summons to the Palace, but did not know the real facts of the case.
The next morning, Jia Zheng was about to leave his office when the minister sent him estimates of the costs for public works in two provinces, which he had to check at once before going home.
He therefore sent Jia Lian instructions not to wait for his return but to make a thorough investigation as soon as Lai Da was back, and then to take what action he thought fit.
This message pleased Jia Lian on Qins account.
He reflected, If I hush up this business completely, uncle may smell a rat.
Id better report it to Her Ladyship and do as she suggests for then even if its not what he would have done he cant hold me to blame.
Thus resolved, he went in to see Lady Wang.
Yesterday the master was angry over that lampoon, he announced, explaining its contents.
He had Qin and the novices brought here for an investigation.
Today, as he has no time to look into this scandal, hes told me to report it to you, madam, to do as you think fit.
So Ive come to ask you how we should deal with this.
How disgraceful!
exclaimed Lady Wang, very shocked.
If Qin really carried on like that, our family should disown him.
But what a scoundrel that lampoonist must be!
How could he sling mud like that?
Have you asked Qin whether theres any truth in it?
I did ask him just now.
But think, madam, who would admit to anything so shameless even if hed really done it?
Still, I dont believe Qin would dare, for fear of the consequences, knowing that Her highness might send for these girls any time.
To my mind, it shouldnt be hard to find out the truth.
But suppose it is true, madam, what will you do?
Where are those girls now?
All locked up in the Garden.
Do the young ladies know about this?
I expect theyve all heard of their summons to the Palace.
There hasnt been any other gossip outside.
Thats good.
These creatures mustnt be kept here a moment longer.
I was in favour of packing them off before, but the rest of you insisted on keeping them and now see whats come of it!
Tell Lai Da to take them away and carefully trace their families, if they have any.
Then let him get out the bonds of those whose families can be found and draw a few dozen taels to hire a boat and send them back, with a reliable escort, to where they came from.
When theyve all been manumitted that will be the end of that.
If we were to force them all to go back to secular life just because one or two of them have gone to the bad, that would be too heartless.
And if we made them over to official brokers here, even though we didnt ask for any money theyd still sell them, not caring at all whether they lived or died.
As for Qin, you must give him a good talking to.
Hes not to show his face here any more, except for sacrifices and celebrations.
And hed better be careful to steer clear of the master if hes in one of his tempers, or else hell settle Qins hash!
Another thing tell the accountants office to cancel this allowance.
And send word to Water Moon Convent that, on the masters orders, theyre not to receive young gentlemen from our house except when they go to sacrifice at one of the graves there.
If theres any more talk well drive away the whole lot, including the old abbess.
Jia Lian assented and withdrew to notify Lai Da.
This is how Her Ladyship wants you to handle this business, he informed him.
When its done, let me know so that I can report to her.
And better see to it quickly then when the master comes back you can report to him that these were her instructions.
Our mistress is really a saintly soul!
was Lai Das comment.
Fancy sending those creatures home, with an escort too!
Well, as shes so kindhearted, I shall have to find some reliable man.
As for Master Qin, Ill leave you to deal with him.
And Ill try to track down that lampoonist so that we can crack down on him.
Jia Lian nodded and said, Right.
He lost no time then in dismissing ha Qin, while Lai Da made haste to take the novices away and deal with them according to his instructions.
That evening when Jia Zheng came back, they reported this to him and as Jia Zheng disliked trouble, on hearing this he let the matter drop.
Of course rogues outside, when they heard that twenty-four girls had been dismissed from the Jia Mansion, all wanted to get their hands on them so whether they ever reached home or not is uncertain, and we have no means of guessing.
Now that Daiyus health was improving, Zijuan had time on her hands, and being puzzled by the report that the novices had been summoned to the Palace she went to the old ladys place for news.
She happened to find Yuanyang free too, and sitting down to chat she asked her about the nuns.
This is news to me, said Yuanyang in surprise.
Ill find out later on from Madam Lian.
As they were talking, two serving-women from Fu Shis family arrived to pay their respects to the Lady Dowager.
Yuanyang was taking them there when they heard that the old lady was having a nap, so the women delivered their message to her and left.
Where are they from?
asked Zijuan.
Theyre perfect pests!
Yuanyang told her.
The Fus have a daughter who is not bad-looking, so they keep coming to praise her to the old lady for her good looks, good heart and good manners.
They say shes no chatter-box but a skilled needlewoman, who can write and keep accounts too, most dutiful to her elders and kind to the servants.
Each time they come they reel all this off, as if offering the old lady some rare treasure.
I cant bear listening to them!
But although theyre such a nuisance, our old lady loves that kind of talk.
She isnt the only one either.
Even Baoyu who cant abide most old women doesnt mind these from the Fu family.
Odd, isnt it?
Only the other day they came to say that lots of people are asking for their young lady, but her father wont give his consent hinting that only a family like ours would be good enough for her.
All their praise and flattery are having some effect on the old lady.
Though taken aback, Zijuan asked with a show of indifference, If she thinks it a good match for Baoyu, then why not fix it up?
Before Yuanyang could explain someone inside called Out, The old ladys woken!
Yuanyang hurried in then and Zijuan got up to leave.
On her way back to the Garden she ruminated, Is there only one Baoyu in the world that everybody should want him?
And our young ladys the one who dotes on him most.
You can see by the way she behaves that shes set her heart on him why else should she keep falling ill?
Theres confusion enough here already, what with gold unicorns and gold lockets, without foisting another Miss Fu on us too!
I think its our young lady that Baoyu fancies but judging by what Yuanyang says, he falls in love with every girl he meets.
If so, our young ladys eating her heart out for nothing.
From thinking of Daiyu she went on to wonder what she herself should do, until she felt quite distracted.
Though tempted to advise Daiyu to stop caring so much for Baoyu, she was afraid this would upset her yet seeing her like this made her heart bleed.
The more she brooded the more anxious she grew.
Why worry about someone else?
she scolded herself.
Even if she really marries Baoyu, the way she is it wont be easy to please her and Baoyu, for all hes good-natured, is too much of a flirt.
But here I am hoping shell stop worrying yet worrying myself for nothing!
From now on Ill look after her as best I can and not care about anything else.
This conclusion helped to calm her down by the time she reached Bamboo Lodge, where she found Daiyu sitting all by herself on the kang sorting out her old poems and essays.
She looked up when Zijuan came in.
Where have you been?
she asked.
To call on some other girls.
Did you see Sister Xiren?
Why should I go to see her?
Daiyu wondered how she had come to blurt out such a question, and in embarrassment she answered curtly, I dont care where you go.
Fetch me some tea.
Laughing up her sleeve, Zijuan went out to do this and heard a clamour of voices in the Garden.
As she poured the tea she sent someone to find out what had happened.
The girl came back and told her, Some crab-apple trees in Happy Red Court had withered, and nobody watered them but yesterday when Baoyu had a look he claimed he saw buds on the branches.
No one believed him or paid any attention.
Today, all of a sudden, they burst into bloom with lovely crab-apple flowers!
People were so amazed that they rushed over there to look, Its caused such a sensation that even the old lady and Her Ladyship are coming to see the flowers.
So Madam Zhus given orders to have the leaves in the Garden swept up, and they were calling servants just now to do this.
Daiyu, overhearing that the old lady was coming, at once changed her clothes and sent Xueyan out to keep watch.
Tell me as soon as the old lady comes, she said.
It was not long before Xueyan came running back.
The old lady and the mistress have come with quite a party, she announced.
Youd better go right away, miss.
Daiyu glanced at herself in the mirror and smoothed her hair, then took Zijuans arm to go to Happy Red Court, where she found the Lady Dowager seated on Baoyus couch.
Daiyu paid her respects to her, then to Lady Xing and Lady Wang, after which she greeted Li Wan, Tanchun, Xichun and Xiuyan.
The only ones absent were Xifeng, who was unwell Xiangyun, who had been fetched home now that her uncle had a post in the capital Baoqin,.
who was staying with Baochai and the two Li sisters, who had moved out to live with Aunt Li on account of all the troubles in the Garden.
So Daiyu saw only a few of the girls.
For a while they discussed this strange phenomenon of blossom out of season.
Crab-apple should blossom in the third month, said the old lady.
Although its now the eleventh, because the solar seasons are late this year its actually like the tenth, and were having an Indian summer which makes it warm enough for trees to blossom.
Youve seen so much, madam, you must be right, Lady Wang concurred.
Its not all that remarkable.
I heard this plant had withered for a whole year, said Lady Xing.
Why is it blossoming now?
There must be some reason.
Im sure the old lady and mistress are right, put in Li Wan with a smile.
In my foolish opinion, this blossoming shows that something good is coming Baoyus way.
Tanchun remained silent, thinking, It cant be a good omen.
All living things which obey Heavens will must prosper, while all which flout it must die even plants know that.
So unseasonable blossom must be an evil omen.
She could not say this, however.
Daiyu, elated by this talk of good luck for Baoyu, said gaily, The Tian family of old had a red-bud tree which withered when the three brothers split up the property.
That made them go back in remorse to live together, and then the tree blossomed again.
This shows that plants change in accordance with human beings.
Now Cousin Bao is studying hard and uncle is pleased with him, so these crab-apples have blossomed again.
The old lady and Lady Wang were delighted with this explanation.
Daiyus made an.apt comparison, they said.
Most interesting!
As they were talking, Jia She and Jia Zheng arrived with Huan and Lan to look at the flowers.
If I were you, Id cut them down, said Jia She.
It must be some flower-monster making trouble.
Jia Zheng retorted, Ignore a monster and it will destroy itself.
Just let it be.
Theres no need to cut it down.
What nonsense are you talking?
his mother protested.
This is something auspicious and good theres no monster here.
If good comes of this, you can enjoy it.
If bad comes of it, Ill take all the consequences.
But 1 wont have you talking such rubbish!
Thus silenced, Jia Zheng withdrew sheepishly with ha She.
Then the old lady in high spirits told them to order the kitchen to prepare a feast at once, so that they could enjoy the flowers.
Baoyu, Huan and Lan must each write a poem to commemorate this happy event, she decreed.
Daiyus just over her illness, so we mustnt trouble her to write but if shes in the mood she can polish your lines.
She told Li Wan, All of you must drink with me.
Li Wan agreed to this, then said teasingly to Tanchun, This is all your fault.
Weve not even been allowed to write poems, retorted Tanchun.
So surely this has nothing to do with us?
Didnt you start the Begonia Society?
Now these crab-apples want to join your club too.
At that everybody laughed.
Presently wine and dishes were served.
And as they drank they all tried to please the old lady by cheerful talk.
Baoyu poured wine for the others, then made tip and wrote out a quatrain which he read to his grandmother.
It was as follows -771 What made the crab-apple wither away?
And today why have fresh blossoms come?
To foretell a long life for our Old Ancestress It is flowering anew, ahead of the plum.
Huan also wrote and read out this poem -771 Crab-apples should burgeon in the spring, But ours were bare this year.
The world is full of strange phenomena, Yet only here do winter blooms appear.
Lan wrote out his verse neatly and presented it to the old lady, who made Li Wan read it out as follows -771 Its misty charm had faded by last spring, But after snow and frost pink blooms unfold.
Do not accuse this flower of ignorance Good fortune at this feast it has foretold.
The old lady said, I dont know much about poetry, but I think Lans is the best.
Huans is no good.
Now come and eat, everyone.
Baoyu was pleased to see her in a good mood until it occurred to him, The crab-apple died at the same time as Qingwen.
Now that its blossoming again, of course that augurs well for us in this compound, but it cant bring Qingwen back to life like this flower.
At once his joy turned to sadness, till he remembered Qiaojie telling him that Xifeng would be sending Wuer to take Hongyus place.
This flower may be blossoming for her, he thought, and his spirits rising again he chatted with the rest of them as before.
After some time the old lady left, leaning on Zhenzhus arm and accompanied by Lady Wang and the others.
On their way back Pinger accosted them.
Our mistress heard that the old lady was enjoying the flowers here, she said with a smile.
As she couldnt come herself, shes sent me to help wait on Your Ladyships.
Here are two rolls of red silk too, a congratulatory gift for Master .Bao to drape over the trees.
Xiren took the silk and showed it to the old lady, who commented laughingly, Whatever Xifeng does is in good form, besides being original and great fun!
Xiren told Pinger, When you go back please thank Madam Lian for Master Bao.
If were to have good fortune, well all share it.
Aha!
chuckled the old lady.
I forgot that.
Though Xifeng is unwell shes still so thoughtful.
This was just the present to give.
She went on then and the others followed her, while Pinger confided to Xiren, Our mistress says this blossoming now is odd so she wants you to cut strips of that red silk and hang them over the trees to bring good luck.
And dont let anyone spread foolish talk about this being a miracle.
Xiren nodded agreement and then saw her off.
.Baoyu had been resting at home that day, wearing a fur-lined gown, when he noticed that the crab-apples had blossomed and went out to look atthem, sighing with admiration.
So enchanted with them was he that he became quite wrapped up in their flowers, which evoked in him mixed feelings of grief and joy.
At the sudden news that the old lady was coming, he changed into a fox-fur archers jacket and black fox-fur coat, then went out so hurriedly to welcome her that he omitted to put on his Precious Jade of Spiritual Understanding.
Not till the old lady had left and he had changed back into a gown did Xiren see that the pendant which usually hung around his neck was missing.
Where is your jade?
she asked.
When I changed just now in such a hurry, I took it off and put it on the small table on the kang instead of wearing it.
Xiren could not see it on the small table.
She searched the whole room, but there was no trace of it.
Dismay made her break out into a cold sweat.
Dont worry, said Baoyu.
Its bound to be somewhere here.
Ask the others.
They must know.
It occurred to Xiren that one of the other girls must have hidden it to tease her.
You bitches!
she said playfully to Sheyue and the rest.
What sort of joke is this to play?
Where have you hidden it?
If it really got lost, that would be the end of us all!
What are you talking about?
they answered seriously.
Joking is all very well, but this is no joking matter.
Dont talk nonsense.
You must be crazy!
Better think back to where you put it instead of accusing us.
Heavens!
cried Xiren anxiously, seeing them so much in earnest.
Where exactly did you put it, Master Bao?
I remember quite clearly putting it on that table, he assured her.
Make a good search for it.
Not daring to let outsiders know, Xiren, Sheyue, Qiuwen and the other girls quietly searched the whole place.
They hunted around for hours, even turning out cases and crates but all in vain.
When the jade was nowhere to be found, they wondered if one of their visitors that day could have taken it.
But Xiren said, All of them know how precious this jade is.
Whod dare take it?
You mustnt, for goodness sake, let word of this get out, but go and make inquiries at different households.
If one of the other girls took it to play a trick on us, kowtow to her and beg her to return it.
And if you find out that one of the little maids stole it, dont report it to the mistresses but give her something in exchange for it.
This isnt just anything!
If its really lost, thats more serious than losing Master Bao!
As Sheyue and Qiuwen were leaving, she hurried after them with a final warning Dont start by asking those who came to the feast.
Because then, if you cant find it, that will cause more trouble and make matters worse.
Sheyue and Qiuwen agreed and went off separately to make inquiries but nobody had seen the jade, and they were all alarmed.
The two of them hurried back to eye each other blankly in consternation.
By now Baoyu was alarmed too, while Xiren could only sob in desperation.
The jade had vanished, and they dared not report it.
All the inmates of Happy Red Court were petrified.
While they were in this state of stupefaction, along came some people who had heard of their loss.
Tanchun ordered the Garden gate to be closed and sent an old serving-woman with two young maids to make another comprehensive search, promising a handsome reward to anyone who found the jade.
Eagerness to clear themselves and receive a reward made everyone search frantically high and low they even scoured the privies.
But it was like looking for a needle in a haystack.
They searched all day in vain.
This is no laughing matter, said Li Wan in desperation.
Ive a blunt proposal to make.
What is it?
the others asked.
Things have come to such a pass, we cant be too nice.
Now apart from Baoyu all the others in the Garden are women.
Im going to ask all you girls, as well as the maids you brought with you, to take off your clothes to be searched.
If the jade isnt found, well tell the maids to search the serving-women and the maids doing the rough work.
What do you say?
Thats an idea, they agreed.
With such a crowd of us here were a mixed lot, and this would be a way to clear ourselves.
Only Tanchun made no comment.
As the maids also wanted to clear themselves of suspicion, Pinger volunteered to be the first to be searched.
Then the others stripped too, and Li Wan searched them in turn.
Sister-in-law!
snapped Tanchun.
Where did you learn to behave in this scandalous way?
If anyone stole it she wouldnt keep it on her, would she?
Besides, this jade may be treasured here but to outsiders not in the know its quite useless, so why should anyone steal it?
Im sure that someone is up to monkey tricks.
When they heard this and noticed Huans absence though earlier on he had been running all over the place they suspected him but were unwilling to say so.
Huans the only one whod play such a trick, Tanchun continued.
Send somebody to fetch him quietly and persuade him to return it then give him a scare to make him keep his mouth shut, and that will be that.
The others nodded approval.
Li Wan told .Pinger, Youre the only one who can get the truth out of him.
Pinger agreed to try and hurried off, coming back before long with ha Huan.
The rest pretended that nothing was amiss and told maids to serve him tea in the inner room.
Then they excused themselves, leaving him to Pinger.
Your Brother Bao has lost his jade, she told him with a smile.
Have you seen it?
Jia Huan flushed scarlet and glared.
When he loses something, why suspect me?
he protested.
Am I a convicted thief?
He looked so worked up that Pinger dared not press him.
I didnt mean that, She explained with a smile.
I thought you might have taken it to scare them thats why I simply asked if youd seen it or not, to help them find it.
He was the one wearing the jade, so hes the one you should ask instead of me.
You all make so much of him!
When theres something good going, you dont ask me to share it but when anythings lost, Im the one you ask about it!
He got up and marched out, and they could not stop him.
All this troubles due to that silly thing!
burst out Baoyu.
I dont want it, so you neednt make such a fuss.
When Huan gets back hes bound to tell everyone and raise a fearful rumpus.
Weeping in desperation Xiren said, You may not care that the jades lost, Little Ancestor, but if this comes to the mistresses ears itll be the death of us!
She broke down and sobbed.
Now that it was clear that this could not be hushed up, feeling even more worried they discussed how best to report it to the old lady and other mistresses.
Theres no need to discuss it, expostulated Baoyu.
Just say Ive smashed it.
How casually youre taking it, sir!
rejoined Pinger.
Suppose they ask why you smashed it?
These girls will still be the ones to take the blame.
And suppose they ask to see the broken bits?
Well then, say I lost it outside.
That sounded more plausible, until they remembered that Baoyu had not been to school for a couple of days or paid any visits outside.
They pointed this out.
Thats not true, he remonstrated.
Three days ago I went to see the opera in the Duke of Linans mansion.
Just say I lost it that day.
That wont do, countered Tanchun.
If you lost it then, why didnt you report it at the time?
They were racking their brains to think up some good story when they heard sobbing and wailing it was Concubine Zhao approaching.
You lose something, yet instead of looking for it you torture my Huan behind my back!
she screamed.
Ive brought him here to hand him over to you arse-lickers.
You can kill him or slice him to pieces just as you please!
With that she shoved Huan forward.
Youre a thief!
she cried.
Own up, quick.
Then Huan started crying too from mortification.
Before Li Wan could placate them a maid announced, Here comes the mistress!
Xiren and the other maids wished the earth would swallow them up, but they had to hurry out with Baoyu to meet her.
Concubine Zhao went with them, afraid to say any more for the time being.
And when Lady Wang saw the panic they were in, she realized that the news she had heard was true.
Is the jade really lost?
she demanded.
No one dared answer.
Lady Wang went inside and sat down, then called for Xiren who fell on her knees in confusion, tears in her eyes, preparing to make her report.
Get up, ordered Lady Wang, Have another careful search made.
Its no use losing your heads.
Xiren sobbed, unable to speak.
For fear she might tell the truth Baoyu put in.
This has nothing to do with Xiren, madam.
I lost it on the road the other day when I went to the dukes mansion to see the opera.
Why didnt you look for it then?
I was afraid to let on, so I didnt tell them.
Instead I asked Beiming and the rest to hunt for it outside.
Nonsense!
his mother exclaimed.
Dont Xiren and the other girls help you off with your clothes?
Whenever you come back from outside, if so much as a handkerchief or pouch is missing they have to look into it, not to mention that jade!
They would certainly have asked about it.
This silenced Baoyu but pleased Concubine Zhao.
If he lost it outside why should they accuse Huan... she began.
Before she could finish Lady Wang rapped out, Were talking about the jade.
Stop drivelling!
With Concubine Zhao crushed, Li Wan and Tanchun told Lady Wang all that had happened, making her shed tears in dismay.
She decided to report this to the old lady so that she could send people to question those members of Lady Xings household who had come with her to Happy Red Court that morning.
Just then, however, along came Xifeng, having heard about the loss of Baoyus jade and Lady Wangs visit to the Garden.
Although still an invalid, feeling unable to hold aloof she now arrived leaning on Fengers arm, just as Lady Wang was about to leave.
How are you madam?
she faltered.
Baoyu and the others went over and greeted her.
So youve heard too?
said Lady Wang.
Isnt it odd?
ft just vanished all of a sudden and cant be found.
Think now which of the maids from the old ladys place down to your Pinger is unreliable and a mischief-maker?
I shall have to report this to the old lady and organize a thorough-going search.
Otherwise, Baoyus life may be cut short!
Our households so big, its a mixed lot, Xifeng answered.
As the proverb says, you cant judge by appearances, madam.
Who can guarantee that everyone here is honest?
But if we raise a hue and cry so that this becomes public knowledge, the thief will realize that if you find him out or her, as the case may be he will have to pay for it with his life, and in desperation he may smash the jade to destroy the evidence.
Then what shall we do?
In my foolish opinion, wed better say that Baoyu never liked it and its loss is of no consequence, so long as we all keep this secret and dont let the old lady and the master know.
At the same time, we can secretly send people to search high and low and trick the thief into producing it.
Once we have the jade back, we can punish the culprit.
What do you think of this, madam?
After some thought Lady Wang answered, Youre right of course, but how are we to keep this from the master?
She called Huan over and told him, Your brothers jade is lost.
Why should you raise such a row when simply asked a question?
If you spread the news and the thief smashes the jade, I cant see you living it down!
In his terror Huan sobbed, I wont breathe a word about it!
And Concubine Zhao was too cowed to say any more.
Lady Wang now told the others, There must be places you havent searched.
It was here all right, so how could it fly away?
But the thing is to keep this quiet.
I give you three days, Xiren, to find it for me.
If you still havent recovered it by then, Im afraid we shant be able to hush it up and there will be no peace for anyone!
She told Xifeng to go with her to Lady Xings house to discuss plans for a search.
Li Wan and the others talked it over again, then summoned the servants in charge of the Garden and made them lock the gates.
Next they sent for Lin Zhixiaos wife and told her to order the gatekeepers both at the front and the back not to let out any domestics, whether male or female, for the next three days.
All were to remain in the Garden until something missing had been found again.
Very well, said Mrs. Lin, adding, the other day we lost something at home of no great value.
But to trace it my husband went out to consult a fortune-teller, a man called Iron-Mouth Liu, who cleared up the problem for us by analysing a character.
And sure enough, when Zhixiao came back and looked where he suggested, we found the thing at once.
Good Mrs. Lin, Xiren begged her, do go and get your husband to consult that fortune-teller for us now.
Mrs. Lin agreed readily to this and left.
Actually those fortune-tellers and diviners outside are no use, said Xiuyan.
When I was down south, I heard that Miaoyu was able to divine by writing on sand.
Why dont we consult her?
Besides, this jade is said to be supernatural, so the oracle should disclose its whereabouts.
The others rejoined in surprise, We often see her but never heard tell of this.
I doubt if shell agree if we others ask her, miss, said Sheyue to Xiuyan.
So let me kowtow to you .and beg you to take this errand on yourself.
If she clears up this mystery, we shall never forget your kindness as long as we live!
She knelt down to kowtow but Xiuyan stopped her, while Daiyu and the other girls also urged her to go straight to Green Lattice Nunnery.
Just then, however, Mrs. Lin came back.
Good news, young ladies!
she cried.
My husbands been to see the fortune-teller and he says the jade cant be lost someone is bound to return it.
Most of them found this hard to believe, but Xiren and Sheyue were overjoyed.
What character did he analyze?
Tanchun asked.
He said a whole lot, too much for me to repeat, answered Mrs. Lin.
I remember that the character he picked was shang meaning gift.
Then, without asking any questions, that Iron Mouth Liu said, Youve lost something, I take it.
A good guess!
exclaimed Li Wan.
Mrs. Lin continued, Then he said the upper part of the character is the xiao for small with the kou for mouth below so the thing should be small enough to put in the mouth and must be some sort of jewel.
Thats really miraculous!
they cried.
What else did he say?
The lower half of the character was a stroke or two short of jian meaning see, so the object must have disappeared from sight.
And as the top half was the same as in dang for pawn, we should look for the missing object in a pawnshop.
When we add ren, a man, to shang, it gives chang meaning to redeem.
2 So once we hit on the right pawnshop, well find whoever pawned it and then we can redeem it.
In that case, said the others, lets first look near by.
If we search the neighbourhood pawnshops were bound to find it.
Once we have the jade, itll be easy to question the thief.
Provided we get the jade back, it doesnt matter whether we question the thief or not, was Li Wans opinion.
Please go right away, Mrs. Lin, to tell Madam Lian what the fortune-teller says, and report it to Her Ladyship too so that she can stop worrying.
Then ask Madam Lian to send men to investigate.
Mrs. Lin went off on this errand.
Feeling a little more reassured, they were waiting blankly for Xiuyans return when they saw Baoyus page Beiming beckoning outside the door to a young maid.
The girl at once went out.
Wonderful news!
he told her.
Hurry up and tell our Master Bao and all the ladies inside.
Tell me what it is, quick!
she retorted.
Dont drag it out.
Beiming clapped his hands, chuckling.
When Ive told you, miss, and you go in and pass on the news, well both of us get tipped.
Can you guess whats happened?
Ive got definite news about Master Baos jade.
If you want to know the upshot, read the next chapter.
Chapter 95 A Rumour Comes True and the Imperial Consort Yuanchun Dies A Fraud Is Perpetrated After Baoyu Loses His Mind After hearing from Beiming that the jade had been found, the young maid hurried in to report this to Baoyu.
The others all urged him to go out to question his page, and stepped into the corridor themselves to listen.
Feeling reassured, Baoyu went to the door and asked Where did you find it?
Bring it here at once.
I cant do that, said Beiming, till weve found a guarantor.
Tell me where it is then, and Ill send someone to get it.
When I learned outside that Mr. Lin was going to consult a fortuneteller, I followed him.
Then, hearing that it could be found in a pawnshop, without waiting for him to finish I rushed over to several pawnshops and gave them a description of the jade, and one shop said theyd got it.
When I asked for it, though, they wanted the pawn-ticket.
How much was it hocked for?
I asked.
They said, We give from three hundred to five hundred cash.
The other day someone brought in a jade like that and pawned it for three hundred.
Today another man came with a piece and pawned it for five hundred.
Baoyu cut him short with the order, Go at once, taking money to redeem both then well see whether one is the right piece or not.
Dont listen to him, Master Bao!
scoffed Xiren from inside.
When I was small my brother often told me that hawkers of small pieces of jade pawn them when they need cash.
Every single pawnshop must have some.
The others had been surprised by Beimings report.
Now, thinking over Xirens comment, they laughed.
Tell Master Bao to come in, they cried.
Pay no attention to that simpleton.
The jade hes talking about cant be the right one.
Baoyu was laughing too when Xiuyan came back.
Now Xiuyan on reaching Green Lattice Nunnery, as soon as she saw Miaoyu had asked her without any preliminaries to consult an oracle for them by writing on sand.
Miaoyu laughed disdainfully.
Ive treated you as my friend, she said, because youre not one of the vulgar herd.
Why trouble me like this today on the base of some rumour?
Besides, I know nothing about writing on sand.
And this said, she ignored her.
Knowing the young nuns temperament, Xiuyan regretted having come.
Still she reflected, After telling the others, I can hardly go back empty-handed.
Since she could not very well argue with Miaoyu and affirm that she could use a planchette, she explained to her with a conciliatory smile that the lives of Xiren and the other maids depended on this.
When she saw her wavering, she got up and curtseyed to her several times.
Miaoyu sighed, Why should you put yourself out for others?
No ones known, since I came to the capital, that I can consult oracles.
If I make an exception for you today, Im afraid I shall have a lot of trouble in future.
I couldnt help blurting it out, counting on your kindness, said Xiuyan.
If youre pestered in future, its up to you whether you agree or not whod dare to force you?
Miaoyu smiled and told the old deaconess to burn some incense, then from her case she took out a sand-board and stand and wrote an incantation.
Xiuyan, after bowing and praying on her instructions, got up to help hold the planchette.
Presently the wand wrote swiftly -771 Ah!
Come and gone without a trace By the ancient pine at the foot of Blue Ridge Peak.
To seek it, cross myriads of mountains Entering my gate with a smile you will meet again.
This written, the wand stopped.
Which deity did you invoke?
Xiuyan asked.
Saint Li the Cripple.
Xiuyan wrote down the oracle, then begged Miaoyu to explain it.
I cant, was the answer.
I dont understand it myself.
Hurry up and take it back.
You have plenty of clever people over there.
Xiuyan went back, and as soon as she entered the courtyard the others all wanted to know how she had fared.
Without giving them the details, she handed Li Wan the oracle she had transcribed.
The girls and Baoyu crowded round to read it and took it to mean that the jade could not be found quickly, but it would turn up some time when they were not looking.
But where is this Blue Ridge Peak?
they asked.
That must be some divine riddle, said Li Wan.
Weve no such peak here, have we?
I expect the thief has thrown it under some rockery with pine trees on it, for fear of detection.
But it says entering my gate whose gate would that be?
Daiyu remarked, I wonder whom she invoked.
Saint Li the Cripple, Xiuyan told her.
If its an immortals gate, that wont be easy to enter!
exclaimed Tanchun.
Xiren hunted frantically round, clutching at shadows and searching under each rock, but there was no trace of the jade.
When she came back, Baoyu smiled foolishly instead of asking whether she had found it.
Little Ancestor!
cried Sheyue in desperation.
Where exactly did you lose it?
If you tell us, even if we suffer for it, we shall have something to go on.
When I said I lost it outside, you wouldnt have it, he reminded her.
Now how can I answer your question?
Li Wan and Tanchun interposed, Weve been in a flurry ever since this morning, and now its nearly midnight.
Look, Cousin Lins already left she couldnt last out any longer.
We ought to get some rest too well have our hands full tomorrow.
They all dispersed then, and Baoyu went to bed.
But poor Xiren and the other maids wept and racked their brains all night, unable to sleep.
When Daiyu, having gone home first, recalled all the earlier talk about gold and jade she told herself with inward satisfaction, Monks and priests cant be believed, and thats a fact.
If a match between the gold and the jade was predestined, how could Baoyu lose the jade?
Maybe its because of me that this match between gold and jade has been broken up.
Consoled by these reflections, she forgot the fatigues of the day and started reading again, till Zijuan who was worn out urged her to sleep.
But although she lay down her thoughts turned to the crab-apple trees.
He was born with that jade its no ordinary stone, she mused.
So its disappearance must have some significance.
If the blossoming of the crab-apples was a good omen, he shouldnt have lost the jade.
It looks as if the blossoming was an ill omen and hes in for a spell of bad luck.
Her spirits sank again till she thought of her marriage, when it seemed right for the trees to have blossomed and for the jade to be lost.
In this way, sad and happy by turns, she did not fall asleep till dawn.
Early the next day, Lady Wang sent to make inquiries at various pawnshops, and Xifeng also had a search made in secret.
This went on for several days, but to no effect.
Luckily the old lady and Jia Zheng did not know this.
Xiren and the other maids were on tenterhooks every day, while Baoyu stayed away from school looking dazed and dejected, saying not a word.
However, his mother did not take this to heart, attributing it to the loss of his jade.
She was brooding one day when, abruptly, Jia Lian came in to pay his respects.
Beaming, he announced, Ive just heard that Yucun has sent word to the Second Master that your honourable brother has been promoted to the post of Grand Secretary and summoned to the capital.
His appointment is to be proclaimed on the twentieth of the first month next year, and a dispatch has been sent to his post three hundred ii away.
I expect hes on his way now, travelling day and night, and will be here in little more than a fortnight.
So Ive come specially to report this to you, madam.
Lady Wang was overjoyed.
She had been regretting that so few of her family were left and Aunt Xues family had declined, while her brother serving in the provinces could not look after them.
His return to the capital now as Grand Secretary would exalt the Wang family and give Baoyu someone to rely on in future.
She stopped worrying so much about the loss of the jade, looking forward every day to her brothers arrival.
Then one day ha Zheng burst in, tears streaming down his cheeks.
Quick!
he panted, Go and ask the old lady to go at once to the Palace!
You can escort her there no need for too many people.
Her Highness has suddenly fallen ill. A eunuch is waiting outside.
According to him, the Imperial physicians say shes had a stroke and theres no hope!
Lady Wang at once gave way to a storm of weeping.
This is no time for crying, he interposed.
Hurry up and fetch the old lady.
But break it to her gently.
Dont frighten the old soul.
He then left to tell the servants to make preparations.
His wife, holding back her tears, went to tell the Lady Dowager that Yuanchun was ill and they were to call to pay their respects to her.
Invoking Buddha the old lady exclaimed, Is she unwell again?
Last time I had a bad fright till we heard it was just a rumour.
Lets hope this proves to be a false report too.
Lady Wang concurred and urged Yuanyang and others to open the chests at once and get out the old ladys ceremonial costume.
She then hurried back to her room to change herself before returning to wait on the old lady.
Presently they went out and were carried by sedan-chairs to the Palace.
Now Yuanchun, highly favoured by the sagacious sovereign since her installation as Imperial Concubine in Phoenix Palace, had grown too plump to exert herself the least fatigue made her liable to apoplexy.
A few days before this, on her way back from waiting on the Emperor at a feast, she had caught a chill which had brought on her former trouble.
And this time it was serious phlegm blocked her wind-pipe, her limbs were numb and c-old.
This was reported to the Emperor, and Imperial physicians were summoned.
However, she was unable to take any medicine, nor could they clear up the congestion.
In their anxiety the Palace officials asked permission to prepare for her death, which was why the Lady Dowager had been sent for.
Entering the Palace in response to the Imperial summons, she and Lady Wang found Yuanchun unable to speak.
At sight of her grandmother she showed signs of distress but had no tears to shed, while the old lady stepped forward to pay her respects and offer condolences.
Soon the cards of Jia Zheng and the rest were sent in and presented by maids-in-waiting but Yuanchuns sight had failed and the colour was slowly ebbing from her face.
The Palace officials and eunuchs had to report this to the Emperor and, anticipating that other Imperial concubines would be sent to see her, in which case it would not be fitting for her relatives to remain there, they asked them to wait outside.
The old lady and Lady Wang could hardly bear to leave, but they had to conform to court etiquette and withdraw with aching hearts, not even daring to weep.
News was sent to the officials at the Palace gate, and presently a eunuch came out to summon the Imperial Astrologer.
The old lady knew what this foreboded, but did not venture to move.
Very soon a younger eunuch came out to announce The Imperial Consort Jia has passed away.
As the Beginning of Spring fell on the eighteenth of the twelfth lunar month that year, and Yuanchun had died on the nineteenth, it was already the first solar month of the next year and so her age was reckoned as forty-three.
Nursing her grief, the old lady rose to leave the Palace and go home by sedan-chair.
Jia Zheng and the others, having also received the news, made their way sadly back.
When they reached home, Lady Xing, Li Wan, Xifeng, Baoyu and the rest were ranged on both sides in front of the hall to meet them.
After paying their respects to the Lady Dowager, then to ha Zheng and Lady Wang, they all gave way to weeping.
Early the next day, those with official titles went to the Palace to mourn beside the coffin as etiquette prescribed.
As Jia Zheng was a vice-minister of works, though there were rules concerning the construction of an Imperial consorts tomb, the minister had to consult him more specially regarding the building of this one, while his colleagues also called to ask for his instructions.
This kept him doubly busy both at home and in the ministry, more so than after the deaths of the Empress Dowager and the Imperial Consort Zhou some time ago.
Because Yuanchun had borne no son, her posthumous title was Virtuous and Noble Imperial Concubine, according to the rules of the Imperial House.
But no more of this.
The whole ha family, men and women alike, were kept very busy going each day to the Palace.
It was fortunate that Xifengs health had recently improved, as she now had to see to household affairs besides preparing to welcome and congratulate Wang Ziteng on his return.
When her brother Wang Ren heard that their uncle was joining the Grand Secretariat, he also came with his wife to the capital.
Xifeng was delighted, these relatives arrival allaying some of her anxieties and contributing to her further recovery.
And now that she was running the household again, Lady Wangs burden was considerably lightened, while her brothers impending arrival helped to set her mind at rest too, As Baoyu had no official duties and had given up studying, his tutor leaving him to his own devices in view of their familys trouble and as ha Zheng was too busy to check up on him, he would normally have taken this chance to amuse himself with his girl cousins every day.
However, since the loss of his jade he had grown thoroughly listless and talked nonsense.
When told that the old lady was back and he should go to pay his respects, he went if not prompted, he made no move.
Xiren and his other maids felt deep misgivings yet dared not take him to task for fear of his anger.
When his meals were set before him he would eat otherwise he never asked for anything.
Xiren, suspecting that he was not sulking but ill, made time one day to slip over to Bamboo Lodge and describe his condition to Zijuan.
Do ask your young lady to come and talk some sense into him, she begged.
However, when this message was passed on to Daiyu, she was reluctant to call on Baoyu in the belief that the two of them were to marry.
If he came here I couldnt ignore him, she thought, as we were together as children.
But it would be quite wrong for me to seek him out.
She therefore refused to go.
Then Xiren confided in Tanchun.
But the unseasonable blossoming of the crab-apples and even stranger disappearance of the precious jade, followed by the death of Yuanchun, had convinced Tanchun that their family was ill-fated.
She had been worrying for days and was in no mood to go to admonish Baoyu.
Besides, girls were supposed to keep a respectful distance from their brothers and when once or twice she did call, his apathy discouraged her from paying him any more visits.
Baochai had also heard of the loss of the jade.
However, the day that Aunt Xue went home having agreed to a match between her and Baoyu she told her daughter, Though your aunt has proposed it Ive not yet given my consent, telling her wed decide after your brothers return.
But are you willing or not?
Baochai had answered gravely, You shouldnt ask me that, mother.
A girls marriage is arranged by her parents.
As father is dead the decisions up to you, or you can consult Brother Pan but you -shouldnt ask me.
This only increased her mothers regard for her, for Baochai although much indulged since childhood had always been a paragon of virtue.
From then on Aunt Xue never mentioned Baoyu in her presence and Baochai naturally made a point of never breathing his name.
So now though shocked and disturbed by the loss of the jade she made no inquiries about it, simply listening to what others said on the subject as if this did not concern her.
Aunt Xue sent maids several times to ask for news.
But worried as she was by the charge against her son Pan and eager for her brothers arrival to help clear him knowing, too, that although Yuanchuns death had thrown the Jia family into confusion Xifeng was now well enough to run the household, she seldom went over herself.
This left Xiren to bear the brunt.
She waited assiduously on Baoyu and tried to advise and console him, but still his wits wandered.
Yet she had to keep her anxiety to herself.
Shortly afterwards, Yuanchuns coffin was deposited in one of the rear temples in the Imperial Sepulchre, and while the old lady and others were away attending the funeral Baoyu grew more deranged from day to day.
-He had no fever or pain but could neither eat nor sleep properly and even grew incoherent in his speech.
Xiren and Sheyue in their alarm reported this more than once to Xifeng, who came over from time to time.
At first she thought he was sulking because the jade had not been found then she realized that he was losing his mind and had doctors fetched to attend him every day.
Although they prescribed various medicines, his condition only grew worse.
Asked whether he felt any pain, he would not answer.
After Yuanchuns funeral was over, the old lady who had been concerned about Baoyu came to the Garden with Lady Wang to see him.
Xiren and the others told him to go out to meet them and pay his respects, for though deranged he could still get about as usual.
Now he paid his respects to his grandmother as before, except that Xiren was beside him to prompt him.
I thought you were ill, child, the old lady exclaimed.
Thats why I came to see you.
How relieved I am to find you looking all right.
Lady Wang felt reassured too.
However, Baoyu made no answer apart from tittering.
Once seated inside, they questioned him and Xiren had to prompt him each time with an answer.
He seemed completely changed too, behaving like a moron.
The old ladys misgivings increased.
At first sight I saw nothing wrong, she said.
But now that I look at him carefully, this illness seems serious the boys lost his mind!
How ever did this happen?
Realizing that the truth could no longer be concealed and pitying Xiren in this predicament, Lady Wang whispered to her Baoyus story about losing the jade when he went to hear the opera in the dukes mansion.
Weve sent to search for it everywhere, she added distractedly, hoping to stop the old lady from worrying.
Weve consulted oracles too, and they all say we shall find it in a pawnshop.
So we shall get it back.
At this the Lady Dowager rose frantically to her feet, tears streaming down her face.
How could you lose that jade!
she exclaimed.
You really are too careless!
Does the master also leave it at that?
Seeing how angry she was, Lady Wang told -the maids to kneel down.
Then, her head bowed, she answered humbly, For fear of worrying you, madam, and making the master angry, I dared not report it.
This jade is the root of Baoyus life, sighed -the old lady.
Its because hes lost it that hes out of his mind.
This will never do!
The whole city knows of this jade, so if someone picked it up do you expect him to let you have it back?
Send for the master at once and Ill tell him this.
Lady Wang and the maids pleaded in consternation, If you are so angry, madam, think what a rage the master will be in!
Now that Baoyus ill, just-leave it to-us to do our very best to find it.
Dont be afraid of the master.
Ill handle him.
The old lady ordered Sheyue to send to fetch him.
Presently it was reported that he was out paying a call.
We can do without him then, she said.
Say these are my instructions.
For the time being theres no need to punish the maids.
Ill get Jia Lian to write an announcement to hang up by the road Baoyu took that day, offering a reward of ten thousand taels to anyone who picked up the jade and returns it, and five thousand to anyone who tells us who has it so that we can get it back.
Provided it can be found, we wont stint our silver.
In this way were sure to recover it.
If we leave it to a few of our household to search, they could search their whole lives long without finding it.
Lady Wang dared raise no objection.
The old lady had these directions sent to Jia Lian with instructions to see to -this quickly.
Next she ordered, Move all the things Baoyu uses every day to my apartments.
Xiren and Qiuwen are to come over with him, leaving the other maids there in the Garden to keep an eye on his rooms.
All this time Baoyu had said nothing, just grinning foolishly.
The Lady Dowager rose then, taking his hand, and Xiren and others helped them out of the Garden.
Back in her own quarters, the old lady made Lady Wang sit down to supervise the rooms arrangement.
Do you know what I have in mind?
she asked.
It seems to me there are too few people in the Garden, and those trees in Happy Red Court have withered and blossomed suddenly in a strange way.
He used to have this jade to ward off evil spirits now that hes lost it Im afraid he may succumb to some evil influence.
Thats why Ive brought him here to stay with me.
We wont let him out for a few days.
The doctors can come here to see him.
Of course youre right, madam, answered Lady Wang.
Living with you, such a favourite of fortune, he cant come to any harm.
Whos a favourite of fortune?
But my rooms are cleaner, and weve plenty of Buddhist scriptures which we can read to calm him.
Ask Baoyu if he likes being here or not.
But Baoyu only grinned.
Not until prompted by Xiren did he say Yes.
Seeing this Lady Wang shed tears but could not sob aloud before the old lady.
Understanding her anxiety the latter said, You go back now.
Ill take care of him.
When the master gets back this evening tell him he neednt come here.
Just be sure not to complain about this.
After Lady Wang had gone, the old lady made Yuanyang get out some tranquillizing medicines and give them to Baoyu according to the prescription.
But no more of this.
That evening Jia Zheng was coming home by carriage when he heard some passers-by talking.
If anyone wants to make a pile, its easy!
said one.
How?
his companion asked.
I heard today that some young master in the Rong Mansion has lost a piece of jade, and a notice has been posted up describing its size, shape and colour.
Ten thousand taels reward has been offered for its return, and five thousand for news of its whereabouts.
Though Jia Zheng had not caught every word distinctly, he had heard enough to hurry home in amazement.
The gateman when questioned reported, The first 1 heard of this, sir, was at noon today when Master Lian passed on the old ladys order and sent people to post up a notice.
Our family must be on the decline!
Jia Zheng sighed.
For our sins weve been saddled with this degenerate.
At the time of his birth he was the talk of the town, but after ten years and more the gossip died down.
Now were raising this hue and cry again to find his jade preposterous!
He hurried inside to question Lady Wang, who told him the whole story.
As this had been done on his mothers instructions, Jia Zheng could not oppose it.
He just vented his anger briefly on his wife before going out again to order the notice to be taken down without the old ladys knowledge.
However, some idlers had already -made off with it.
A few days later, a man came to the Rong Mansion claiming to have brought back the jade.
In great jubilation the servants at the gate said, Hand it over and well go and report it for you.
The fellow reached in his pocket for the notice, pointing at it for them to see.
Wasnt this put up by your house?
he asked.
It says clearly here that whoever returns the jade will get a reward of ten thousand silver taels.
I may look poor now to you gentlemen, but once I have that silver I shall be rich so dont be so high-handed!
He spoke with such confidence that the gateman answered, Well then, just show me the jade so that I can report this for you.
At first the man was unwilling, but on second thoughts he produced the jade and displayed it in the palm of-one hand.
Isnt this it?
he demanded.
These servants on duty at the gate all knew of the jade, but this was their first close look at it.
They hurried in, eager to be the first with this good news.
That day Jia Zheng and Jia She were out.
Only Jia Lian was at home.
Hearing this report, he asked, Is it genuine?
Weve seen it for-ourselves, the servants answered.
-But he wont give it to us underlings.
He wants to see one of the masters, to hand over the jade to him in exchange for the money.
Jia Lian hastened in happily to report this to Lady Wang who then told the old lady, so delighting Xiren that she clasped her hands together, invoking Buddha.
And the Lady Dowager was as good as her word.
Tell Lian to ask that man to wait in the study while he brings the jade here, she said.
Once weve seen it well give him the silver.
Jia Lian accordingly invited the fellow in, treating him as a guest and thanking him profusely.
I would like to take this jade in to show the young master himself, he said.
Then well give you your full reward.
The man handed him a red silk wrapper.
Jia Lian opened it and saw indeed a fine translucent jade.
He had paid scant attention to Baoyus jade before and now took a good look, a careful scrutiny disclosing the inscription warding off evil.
Overjoyed, he ordered servants to wait on the visitor, then hurried in to let the old lady and Lady Wang identify the stone.
By now everyone was agog to see the jade.
As soon as Jia Lian came in Xifeng snatched it from him and, not venturing to examine it herself, presented it to the old lady.
Jia Lian chuckled, So even over a trifle like this, you wont let me take the credit!
When the Lady Dowager unwrapped the jade, it struck her as much more opaque than before.
She rubbed it with her fingers while Yuanyang fetched her spectacles and, putting them on, she scrutinized the stone.
Thats odd!
she exclaimed.
This is the jade all right, but how is it that its lost all its former lustre?
Lady Wang examined it for some time but could not give a positive opinion.
She told Xifeng to have a look.
It resembles it, but the colours not quite right, Xifeng observed.
Better let Baoyu look at it himself, then we shall know.
Xiren beside her also had her doubts, but in her eagerness to have the stone prove authentic she did not express them.
Xifeng took the jade from the old lady and went in with Xiren to show it to Baoyu, who had just woken from a nap.
Heres your jade, Xifeng told him.
Baoyu, his eyes still blurred from sleep, took the jade and without so much as looking at it threw it on the ground.
Youre trying to fool me again, he said with a cynical smile.
Xifeng hastily picked up the jade, protesting, Strange!
How can you tell without even looking at it?
Baoyu said nothing, just smiled.
Lady Wang h-ad come in too and seeing this she said, It goes without saying he must know, as that strange jade came from the womb with him.
This one must be a counterfeit made from the description in the notice.
Then the truth dawned on everyone.
If its a fake, give it to me and Ill ask him how he dare play such tricks, cried Jia Lian, who had overheard this from the outer room.
But the old lady remonstrated, bust return it to him, Lian, and let him go.
The poor devil must have been trying to capitalize on this trouble in our family but now hes spent money on making this for nothing and weve seen through his trick.
In my view we shouldnt make things hard for him.
Just return him the jade saying that it isnt ours and give him a few taels.
Then when outsiders hear of it, if they pick up some clues theyll be willing to let us know whereas if we punish this fellow, then even if the genuine jade is found no one will dare bring it to us.
Jia Lian agreed to this and withdrew.
The man after his long wait was already somewhat apprehensive, and now he saw Jia Lian come out in a towering rage.
But to know what happened next, read the following chapter.
Chapter 96 Xifeng Withholds Information and Lays a Cunning Plan Disclosure of a Secret Deranges Daiyu Jia Lian stormed to the study with the counterfeit jade, and when the man there saw how angry he looked his heart misgave him.
He hastily rose to greet him, but before he could speak Jia Lian laughed scornfully.
Of all the gall!
he swore.
You scoundrel!
What place is this that you dare play such devilish tricks here?
He called for servants.
Those outside answered his summons with a shout like thunder.
Get ropes and tie him up, ordered Jia Lian.
Well report this to the master on his return and send this rogue to the yamen.
Very good, sir!
chorused the servants, but made no move.
Nearly paralyzed with fright by this show of power, the fellow knew that there was no escape and dropping to his knees kowtowed to Jia Lian.
Dont be angry, Your Lordship!
he begged.
Its because I was driven to it by poverty that I thought up this shameless scheme.
I borrowed money to get that jade made, but I wont venture to ask for it back Ill give it as a plaything to your young masters.
He kowtowed again and again.
You stupid fool!
Jia Lian spat out.
Who in this mansion wants your trash?
At this point Lai Da came in.
With a smile he urged Jia Lian, Dont be angry, sir.
This wretc4i isnt worth it.
Let him off and send him packing.
Its disgraceful!
Jia Lian fumed.
So Lai Da took a soft line, Jia Lian a hard one, until the servants outside called, You stupid cur!
Hurry up and kowtow to the master and Mr. Lai, then clear off.
Are you waiting to be kicked out?
Then he hastily kowtowed twice and slunk away.
But this counterfeiting of Baoyus jade became the talk of the town.
When Jia Zheng returned that day from his round of calls, as the matter was done with and they were afraid to enrage him during the Lantern Festival, no one reported it to him.
Yuanchuns funeral had kept them busy for some time and now, with Baoyu ill, although there were the usual family feasts the whole household was in low spirits and nothing noteworthy happened.
By the seventeenth of the first month Lady Wang was looking forward to her brother Wang Zitengs arrival when Xifeng came in with bad news.
Today the Second Master heard outside that uncle was travelling here posthaste, and was only two hundred li or so away when he died on the road!
she cried.
Did you here this, madam?
Not I!
exclaimed Lady Wang in consternation.
The master said nothing about it last night either.
Where did this news come from?
The house of Chancellor Zhang.
Lady Wang was speechless, in tears.
Presently, wiping her eyes, she said, Get Lian to check up on it and let me know.
Xifeng went off to do this.
Lady Wang had been reduced to weeping in secret as she mourned her daughter and worried over Baoyu, and now this third misfortune in swift succession was more than she could bear she came down with colic.
Moreover, Jia Lian confirmed that the news was true.
Uncle was worn out by travelling so fast and he caught a chill, he told her.
When he reached Shilitun a doctor was sent for, but unfortunately that place has no good doctors.
The wrong medicine was prescribed and one dose killed him.
We dont know whether his family has arrived there or not.
Lady Wangs heart ached at this news, aggravating her pains.
Unable to remain seated, she made Caiyun and others help her on to the kang, then speaking with an effort told Jia Lian to report this to Jia Zheng.
Make ready to go there at once to help see to things, she said.
Then come straight back to let us know about it, to set your wifes mind at rest.
Unable to refuse, Jia Lian had to take his leave of Jia Zheng and set off.
Jia Zheng, who had heard the news earlier, was thoroughly disconcerted, knowing also that Baoyu since losing his jade had grown feebleminded and no medicine would cure him, while now Lady Wang was ill too.
That year the records of officials in the capital were examined, and the Ministry of Works ranked Jia Zheng as first class.
In the second month, the Minister of Civil Affairs took him to an audience at court and the Emperor, in recognition of his frugality and circumspection, appointed him Grain Commissioner of Jiangxi.
That same day, giving thanks for this favour, he reported to the throne the date of his departure.
Kinsmen and friends came to offer congratulations, but disturbed as he was by his domestic problems Jia Zheng was in no mood to-entertain them.
Still he dared not postpone his journey.
He was in a quandary when he received a summons from the old lady and, hastening to her room, found his wife there too in spite of her illness.
He paid his respects to his mother, who told him to take a seat.
You will soon be going to your new post, she said tearfully.
There is much I want to say to you, but will you listen?
Jia Zheng promptly rose to his feet.
Just give me your orders, madam.
How dare your son disobey them?
Im eighty-one this year, yet youre going to post in the provinces, she sobbed.
You cant ask for compassionate leave either, as you have an elder brother at home to take care of me.
Once youre gone, therell be only Baoyu here that I care for, but the poor boys losing his mind and we dont know what will become of him!
Yesterday I sent Lai Shengs wife to get someone to tell Baoyus fortune.
She found a very clever fortune-teller who said, He must marry a bride with gold in her stars to help counteract his bad luck otherwise therell probably be no saving him.
I know you dont believe in such things, so Ive asked you here to consult you.
Your wife is here too, so the two of you can talk it over.
Should we try to save Baoyu?
Or let things take their course?
Jia Zheng answered submissively, You were so good to your son, madam, do you think I dont love my son too?
Its only because Baoyu made so little progress that I was often exasperated with him just a case of wanting to turn iron into steel.
If you wish him to take a wife, as is right and proper, how could I disobey you and show no concern for him?
I am worried too by his illness.
Since you kept him away from me I dared not object but can I not see for myself just how ill he is?
Lady Wang saw that the rims of his eyes had reddened and knew how distressed he was.
She therefore told Xiren to bring Baoyu in.
When the boy saw his father, prompted by Xiren he paid his respects but with his emaciated face and his lack-lustre eyes he looked like a moron.
Jia Zheng told them to take him back.
He reflected, Im nearing sixty, and now Im posted to the provinces with no knowing when I shall come back.
If this child really doesnt recover, I shall be left heirless in my old age for my grandson, after all, is another generation removed.
Besides, Baoyu is the old ladys favourite if anything happens to him, I shall be guilty of a greater crime.
He saw from his wifes tears how this must affect her too.
Rising to his feet he said, Old as you are, madam, you show such concern for your grandson, how can I, your son, disobey you?
I shall fall in with whatever you think best.
But will Aunt Xue agree to this, I wonder?
She gave her consent some time ago, Lady Wang told him.
We havent spoken of it yet simply because Pant business still isnt settled.
This is the first problem.
he answered.
With her brother in jail, how can his sister get married?
In the second place, although an Imperial Consorts death does not preclude marriages, Baoyu should mourn for nine months for a married sister, and this is hardly the time for him to take a wife.
Furthermore, the date of my departure has already been reported to the throne, and I cannot postpone it.
How are we to arrange a wedding in these few days?
The old lady thought, Hes right.
But if we wait till these are no longer problems, Baoyus father will be gone, and what shall we do if his illness gets steadily worse?
We shall just have to disregard certain rules of etiquette.
Her mind made up she said, If youre willing, I know of a way to get round these obstacles.
I shall go myself with your wife to ask Aunt Xue s consent.
As for Pan, Ill get Ke to tell him that we have to do this to save Baoyus life, and then hes bound to agree.
Of course it wouldnt do to have a real marriage while in mourning, and Baoyu is too ill for that anyway we just want a happy event to ward off evil.
As both our families agree and there was that prediction about the young peoples gold and jade, theres no need to compare their horoscopes well just select a good date to exchange gifts according to our family status.
Then well choose a day for the wedding, not engaging musicians but following the example of-the Palace, fetching the bride over in a sedan-chair with eight bearers and twelve pairs of lanterns.
They can bow to each other as is done in the south, then sit down on the bed and let down the curtains, and wont that count as a wedding?
Baochais so intelligent, we dont have to worry.
Besides, he has Xiren in his chambers as well, and so much the better, as shes another reliable, sensible girl who knows how to reason with him.
She and Baochai get on well too.
Another thing.
Aunt Xue once told me, A monk said that Baochai with her golden locket is destined to marry someone with jade.
So for all we know, once she marries into our household her gold locket may bring the jade back.
Then he should get steadily better, and wouldnt that be a blessing for us all?
All that needs to be done straight away is to get their rooms ready and furnished its for you to assign them a place.
We wont give any feasts, but wait till Baoyus better and out of mourning before inviting relatives and friends.
In this way we can manage everything in time, and you can leave with an easy mind, having seen the young couple settled.
Jia Zheng though averse to this could not gainsay his mother.
Forcing a smile he said, You have thought it out well and that would be most fitting, madam.
We must order the servants, though, not to noise this abroad or we should be censured for it.
Im only afraid Aunt Xues family may not agree.
If they really do, we must manage it your way.
Just leave Aunt Xue to me, she said, then dismissed him.
Jia Zheng withdrew feeling thoroughly uneasy.
He had so much to do before going to his post, what with fetching credentials from the ministry, receiving relatives and friends who came with recommendations and entertaining a host of other people, that he left the arrangements for Baoyus wedding to his mother, wife and Xifeng.
All he did was to assign his son a side-court with more than twenty rooms in it, adjacent to Lady Wangs house behind the Hall of Glorious Felicity.
When the old lady sent him word of some decision, he simply replied, Very good.
But this is anticipating.
After Baoyu had seen his father, Xiren helped him back to the kang in the inner room.
Since Jia Zheng was outside, no one ventured to speak to Baoyu, who dozed off and thus heard nothing of the conversation in the outer room.
However, Xiren, keeping quiet, heard it clearly.
Talk of this had reached her before, though only as hearsay, yet she tended to believe it in view of the fact that Baochais visits had stopped.
This confirmation today delighted her.
The mistresses certainly have good judgement, she thought.
This is just the match for him.
And what luck for me too!
If she comes, my load will be ever so much lighter.
But hes set his heart on Miss Lin, so its a blessing that he didnt hear this.
If he had, Heaven knows how wildly hed carry on!
This set her worrying.
What shall I do?
she wondered.
Their Ladyships have no idea of their feelings for each other.
They may be so pleased that they tell him, in the hope of curing him.
Then suppose he acts the way he did when he first met Miss Lin and tried to smash his jade or that summer in the Garden, when he mistook me for her and poured out his love or when Zijuan teased him later, and he nearly cried himself to death?
If they tell him now that he-s to have not Miss Lin but Miss Baochai, it may not matter if his wits are wandering but if-hes fairly lucid, far from curing his madness it may hasten his death.
Unless I explain this to them I may ruin three lives!
Having reached this resolve she waited till Jia Zheng had gone, then leaving Baoyu in the care of Qiuwen she slipped out and quietly asked Lady Wang to go with her to the back room.
The Lady Dowager paid little attention, assuming that there was something Baoyu wanted, and went on considering the gifts and arrangements for the wedding.
Once in the back room with Lady Wang, Xiren threw herself on her knees and burst into tears.
Lady Wang pulled her up and asked in surprise, Whats come over you?
Whats the trouble?
Get up and tell me.
This is something a slave shouldnt say, but I see no other way out!
Well, take your time and tell me.
Your Ladyships have decided to marry Miss Baochai to Baoyu, and of course nothing could be better.
All Im wondering, madam, is this which of the two, Miss Baochai and Miss Lin, do you think Baoyu prefers?
As he and Miss Lin were together as children, hes slightly fonder of her.
Not just slightly fonder, Xiren demurred, going on to cite examples of their behaviour.
Except for the avowal he made that summer, which Ive never dared tell anyone, you saw the other instances yourself, madam, she concluded.
Holding Xirens hand Lady Wang answered, I did have some inkling from what I saw.
Now youve clinched it.
But he must have heard what the master said just now.
Did you notice his reaction?
Nowadays w-hen people talk to him he smiles if no one talks to him he goes to sleep.
So-he didnt hear what was said.
Then whats to be done?
Ive made bold to tell you this, madam.
Its for you to tell the old lady and think of some really safe plan.
In that case, get back to your work.
I wont mention it now there are too many people there.
Ill wait for a chance to tell her later on, and then we shall see.
She rejoined the Lady Dowager who was discussing Baoyus marriage with Xifeng.
What did Xiren want that she looked so secretive?
the old lady asked.
Lady Wang took this opening to give her a detailed account of Baoyus feeling for Daiyu.
For a while the old lady said nothing, and Lady Wang and Xifeng kept silent too.
Nothing else really matters, the old lady sighed at last.
We neednt worry about Daiyu.
But if Baoyu is really so infatuated, its going to be difficult!
Not too difficult, said Xifeng after some thought.
Ive an idea, but dont know whether Aunt Xue will agree to it or not.
If you have a plan, tell the old lady, said Lady Wang.
We can discuss it together.
To my mind, said Xifeng, the only way is to palm off a dummy on him.
Palm off what dummy?
the old lady asked.
Never mind whether Baoyu is in his right mind or not, we must all drum it into his head that on the masters orders he is to marry Miss Lin, and see how he takes it.
If he doesnt care either way, we neednt trick him.
If hes pleased, well have to do things more deviously.
Well, assuming hes pleased, what then?
asked Lady Wang.
Xifeng went over to whisper something into her ear, at which she nodded and smiled.
That should work, she said.
Tell me what you two are plotting, urged the old lady.
In order not to give away -the secret, Xifeng whispered in her ear too.
As she had anticipated, the old lady did not understand at first and Xifeng, smiling, had to explain more fully.
Thats all right, agreed the old lady.
Rather hard on Baochai, though.
And if word gets out, what about Daiyu?
Well just tell Baoyu and forbid any mention of this outside, then how could she hear?
At this point a maid announced Jia Lians return.
Not wanting the old lady to question him, Lady Wang signaled to Xifeng who went out to meet him, signing to him to go with her to Lady Wangs place.
By the time they were joined by Lady Wang, Xifengs eyes were red from weeping.
Jia Lian, when he had paid his respects, described his trip to Shilitun to help arrange for Wang Zitengs funeral.
An Imperial decree has conferred on him the rank of Grand Secretary and the posthumous title of Duke Wenqin, he announced.
The family has been ordered to take the coffin back to his native district, and officials along the way are to render assistance.
They set off on the journey back south yesterday.
My aunt told me to convey her respects and say how sorry she is to have been unable to come to the capital there was so much she wanted to tell you.
When she heard that Xifengs brother was on his way to the capital too, she promised if she met him on the road to send him here to give us all her news.
Lady Wang was naturally so upset by this account that Xifeng had to comfort her.
Please have a rest now, madam, she urged.
This evening well come back to discuss Baoyus business.
Going home with Jia Lian she told him what had happened, and asked him to send servants to prepare the bridal chambers.
One morning after breakfast, Daiyu set off to call on her grandmother to pay her respects and also by way of diversion.
They had not gone far from Bamboo Lodge when she found that she had forgotten her handkerchief.
She told Zijuan to go back for one then catch her up she would be walking on slowly.
She had passed Seeping Fragrance Bridge and reached the rocks behind which she and Baoyu had buried blossom, when she suddenly heard sobbing.
She stopped to listen, but could not tell who was lamenting there or hear what she was saying.
Very puzzled, she strolled over and found that the one crying there was an under-maid with thick eyebrows and big eyes.
Daiyu had expected to see one of the upper-maids come here to vent some grief which she could not confide to others.
But when she saw this girl she thought with amusement, A stupid creature like this cant have been crossed in love.
Shes one of those doing rough work who must have got scolded by the senior maids.
She looked hard at the girl but could not recognize her.
When Daiyu appeared, the maid dared not go on crying but stood up and wiped her eyes.
Why are you weeping here?
Whats come over you?
Daiyu asked.
That set the maid off again.
Judge for yourself, Miss Lin!
she sobbed.
They knew something, but I wasnt in on it so even if I made a slip of the tongue, sister had no call to slap me.
Daiyu could not make head or tail of this.
Which sister do you mean?
she asked with a smile.
Sister Zhenzhu.
Knowing from this that she worked for the old lady, Daiyu asked again, Whats your name?
They call me Numskull.
Why did she slap you?
What did you say wrong?
Why?
Just because of the marriage of our Master Bao to Miss Baochai.
Daiyu felt thunderstruck.
Her heart beat wildly.
Composing herself a little she said.
Come with me.
Numskull accompanied her to the quiet spot where she had buried the peach-blossom.
Then Daiyu asked, Why should she slap you because Master Bao is marrying Miss Baochai?
Their Ladyships have settled it with Madam Lian.
Because His Lordships going to leave so soon, theyre fixing up hurriedly with Aunt Xue to have Miss Baochai brought over before he goes.
This will counter Master Baos bad luck with good.
And after that... she beamed at Daiyu after his wedding theyll fix up a match for you, miss.
Daiyu listened, half stupefied, as the maid rattled on, I dont know how they settled this, but they wont let anybody talk about it for fear of embarrassing Miss Baochai if she heard.
All I did was to remark to sister Xiren the one who works for Master Bao, Things are going to be livelier here with Miss Baochai becoming Second Mistress Bao how ought we to address her?
Tell me, Miss Lin, why should that annoy Sister Zhenzhu?
Yet she marched over and slapped my face, saying I was talking nonsense and should be thrown out for not obeying orders!
How was I to know the mistresses didnt want this talked about?
They never tell me anything, yet slap me!
She started sobbing again.
Daiyu felt as if her heart were filled with a mixture of oil, soy, sugar and vinegar so sweet, bitter, painful and sharp that she could not put her sensations into words.
After a pause, in a trembling voice she said, Dont talk such nonsense.
If they heard, theyd give you another slapping.
Be off with you now.
She turned to go back to Bamboo Lodge.
But there seemed to be a mill-stone round her neck and her legs were as limp, her steps as faltering, as if treading on cotton-wool.
It seemed a long way to Seeping Fragrance Bridge, she was walking so slowly and so shakily and moreover she added two bowshots to the distance by wandering about at random in a daze.
When as last she reached the bridge, she inadvertently started back along the dyke.
When Zijuan brought the handkerchief Daiyu had gone.
Looking round for her, she saw her white-faced, her eyes fixed in a vacant stare, wandering unsteadily this way and that.
She also glimpsed a maid walking off in front, but too far away to make out which it was.
In shocked surprise she ran over.
Why are you going back, miss?
she asked gently.
Where do you want to go?
Hearing her as if in a dream, Daiyu answered without thinking, To ask Baoyu what this means.
Zijuan, nonplussed as she was, had to help her to the Lady Dowagers quarters.
When Daiyu reached the door, her mind seemed to clear.
Turning to her maid who was supporting her, she stopped to ask Why have you come?
To bring your handkerchief, was the smiling answer.
Just now I saw you by the bridge, but when I accosted you, you paid no attention.
I thought youd come to see Master Bao, Daiyu laughed.
Why else should you come this way?
Zijuan saw that her wits were wandering, and knew that she must have heard something from that maid.
She could only nod and smile.
However, this visit to Baoyu unnerved her, for he was already demented and now Daiyu was bemused too what if they said something improper?
But for all this, she had to do as she was told and help her young mistress inside.
Strange to say, Daiyu was no longer as limp as before.
Lifting the portiere herself instead of waiting for Zijuan, she stepped in.
All was quiet, for the old lady was having a nap, and her maids had either slipped out to play or were nodding drowsily or attending her.
The clack of the portiere alerted Xiren, who came out from the inner room.
Please come in and take a seat, miss, she invited when she saw who it was.
Is Master Bao in?
Daiyu asked with a smile.
Xiren, being in the dark, was about to answer when Zijuan signaled to her from behind Daiyu and, pointing at her young mistress, waved her hand warningly.
Xiren was too puzzled by this to say any more.
Daiyu, disregarding her, went on into the inner room where Baoyu was sitting.
Instead of rising to offer her a seat, he simply stared at her with a foolish grin.
Daiyu sat down and gazed back at him with a smile.
They exchanged neither greetings nor civilities, just simpered at each other without a word.
Xiren, at a complete loss, did not know what to do.
Baoyu, said Daiyu abruptly.
Why are you ill?
Because of Miss Lin, he answered with a smirk.
Xiren and Zijuan turned pale with fright and at once tried to change the subject but the other two ignored them, still smiling foolishly.
It dawned on Xiren that Daiyu was now deranged too, exactly like Baoyu.
She whispered to Zijuan, Your young ladys just over her illness.
Ill get Sister Qiuwen to help you take her back to rest.
She turned to tell Qiuwen, Go with Sister Zijuan to see Miss Lin back.
Mind you dont say anything foolish.
Qiuwen complied readily.
In silence she and Zijuan helped Daiyu to her feet.
She kept her eyes on Baoyu, smiling and nodding.
Go home and rest, miss, Zijuan urged her.
Of course!
said Daiyu.
Its time for me to go now.
She turned and went out, still smiling, without their assistance and walking much faster than usual.
The two maids hurried after her as once out of her grandmothers compound she forged straight ahead.
This way, miss!
cried Zijuan, catching hold of her arm.
Daiyu allowed herself to be led back and soon they approached the gate of Bamboo Lodge.
Gracious Buddha!
sighed Zijuan in relief.
Home at last!
But the words were still on her lips when Daiyu staggered and fell, vomiting blood.
To know what became of her, read the next chapter.
