Chapter 49 White Snow and Red Plum-Blossom Make the Garden Entrancing Girls Enjoy Rustic Fare at a Venison Barbecue When Xiangling discovered the others talking about her, she went up to them with a smile.
Read this, she said.
If its any good, Ill persevere if not, Ill give up trying to write poetry.
She handed Daiyu her poem and they all read -710 Hard, surely, to hide such splendour, A form so fair, a spirit so cold, so withdrawn Washing-blocks pound in an expanse of white, Only a crescent is left when cocks crow at dawn In green coir cape on the river he listens to autumn fluting, In red sleeves she leans over her balustrade at night.
Well might the goddess Chang E ask herself Why cannot we enjoy endless, perfect delight?
Not only good but original and ingenious, was the general verdict.
As the proverb says, All difficulties on earth can be overcome if men but give their minds to it.
You certainly must join our poetry club.
Xiangling, hardly able to believe her ears, was questioning Daiyu and Baochai to make sure they were not teasing when some maids and old nurses hurried in.
A party of ladies, old and young, have arrived, they announced.
We dont know them, but theyre your relatives.
Please go quickly to welcome them.
What are you talking about?
asked Li Wan.
You must explain more clearly.
Whose relatives are they?
Two of them are your younger cousins, madam.
Two young ladies, one of them is said to be Miss Xues cousin, and theres a young gentleman whos Master Xues cousin.
Were on our way now to invite Madam Xue over.
You and the young ladies had better go first.
As these messengers left Baochai exclaimed joyfully, Can it be our Xue Ke and his sister?
Li Wan said gaily, It sounds as if my aunt has come to the capital again.
But how odd that they should all arrive together.
Going in some mystification to Lady Wangs reception hall, they found it crowded with people.
Lady Xings brother and sister-in-law had brought their daughter Xiuyan to stay with her and they had travelled with Xifengs elder brother Wang Ren, who was coming to the capital too.
Half way there, when their boats moored, they had happened to meet Li Wans widowed aunt making the same journey with her daughters Li Wen and Li Qi and having found out in the course of conversation that they were related, these three families had proceeded on their way together.
Then there was Xue Pans cousin Xue Ke, coming to arrange for the marriage of his younger sister Baoqin who had been betrothed to the son of Academician Mei when their father was in the capital.
Learning of Wang Rens trip, he had followed with his sister and overtaken him.
In this way they had arrived together today to visit their respective relatives.
The Lady Dowager and Lady Wang welcomed these guests most warmly.
Not wonder our lamp wicks kept forming snuff and sputtering last night!
remarked the old lady with a smile.
It was a sign of this reunion today.
While exchanging family news and accepting the gifts brought, she ordered a meal.
Xifeng, it goes without saying, was busier than ever, for Li Wan and Baochai were naturally chatting with their relatives about all that had happened since they parted.
Daiyu enjoyed the general excitement too until it came home to her that she alone had no family but was all on her own, and at this thought she shed tears.
Baoyu, well aware how she felt, finally succeeded in consoling her, after which he hurried back to Happy Red Court.
Go and have a look, quick!
he urged Xiren, Sheyue and Qingwen.
Baochais boy cousin looks and behaves quite differently from Xue Pan, more as if he were her real brother.
And theres something even more amazing.
You always insist that nobody can rival Baochais looks but you should just see her girl cousin and my elder sister-in-laws two cousins words fail me to describe them!
Old Man Heaven, what fine essences and subtle spirits you must have used to produce such exquisite creatures!
Why, Ive been like the frog at the bottom of a well, imagining that our girls here were unmatched but now, without searching far afield, here on this very spot I see others who surpass them.
We certainly live and learn.
Does this mean there are still others like these?
He had been laughing and exclaiming so wildly that Xiren refused to go.
Qingwen and the others had done as he said, however, and now they ran back smiling.
You must go and have a look, they urged Xiren.
Lady Xings niece, Miss Baochais cousin and Madam Zhus two cousins are as pretty as four fresh young shallots, they really are!
While they were speaking, Tanchun came to find Baoyu.
This is a fine thing for our poetry club, she told him.
Thats right, he agreed.
You had the bright idea of starting the club, so now all these people turn up as if by magic.
We dont know, though, whether they can write poems or not.
I asked them just now, said Tanchun.
Though they disclaimed modestly, they all seem as if they can.
Even if they cant, they can learn -363 look at Xiangling.
Miss Xues cousin sounds the best of them all, put in Xiren.
Is that your impression, miss?
Yes, said Tanchun.
I shouldnt be surprised if she surpasses even Baochai and all the rest of us here.
It will be strange if she does.
I shouldnt have thought it possible to find anyone better than her!
exclaimed Xiren, much impressed.
I must go and have a look.
The old lady lost her heart to her as soon as she set eyes on her, Tanchun continued.
Shes already told Lady Wang to adopt her as her daughter, and means to bring her up as her own grandchild.
Its just been decided.
Is that true?
demanded Baoyu joyfully.
Since when have I lied to you?
retorted Tanchun.
Now that the old lady has this good grand-daughter shell forget you, her grandson.
I dont mind.
Its only right to love girls more.
Tomorrows the sixteenth our club ought to hold another meeting.
Daiyus just out of bed and Yingchuns ill again.
Theres always someone missing.
Yingchun doesnt write much, so we can manage without her.
Wouldnt it be better, though, to wait a few days till the newcomers have settled down and then invite them?
Our elder sister-in-law and Baochai naturally wont be in a poetizing mood just now either.
Besides, Xiangyuns not here and Daiyus only just recovered.
It wouldnt suit anyone.
Lets wait till Xiangyun comes.
By then the new arrivals will know us, Daiyu will be completely well, Li Wan and Baochai will have less on their minds, and Xiangling will have made further progress then we can have a better meeting.
Come on now, lets go and see whats happening in the old ladys place.
We dont have to worry about Baochais cousin its settled that shes to stay here.
If the other three arent, we can beg the old lady to invite them to stay in the Garden too.
The more the merrier.
Baoyus face lit up.
Thats a splendid idea, he cried.
Im such a fool, I was so carried away by their arrival, I never thought of that.
The two of them went together then to the Lady Dowagers quarters.
Sure enough, the old lady was so delighted with Baoqin that she had made Lady Wang adopt her as her goddaughter.
And overjoyed by this, she would not even hear of Baoqin staying in the Garden the girl was to sleep with her.
Xue Ke was to be put up in Xue Pans study.
The Lady Dowager then told Lady Xing, Your niece neednt go home for a few days either.
Let her enjoy herself in the Garden first.
As Lady Xings elder brother was poorly off, he and his wife had counted on her providing them with accommodation and financial assistance during this visit to the capital so Xiuyan was entrusted to Xifeng.
Now there were many girls, temperamentally different, in the Garden and as Xifeng considered it unnecessary to open up another house for Xiuyan, she decided the best thing would be to put her up with Yingchun for then if later Lady Xing heard that her niece was dissatisfied, no blame would attach to Xifeng.
And not counting the time she chose to spend at home, each month that she stayed in Grand View Garden Xifeng would allocate her the same monthly allowance as Yingchun.
Dispassionately appraising Xiuyans character and behaviour, she found her unlike both Lady Xing and her parents, being extremely gentle and lovable.
So Xifeng gave her preferential treatment out of pity for her poverty and hard life, whereas Lady Xing paid little attention to her.
Because the Lady Dowager and Lady Wang appreciated Li Wans good qualities and her admirable conduct since her husbands untimely death, they would not hear of her widowed aunt staying anywhere but in their house.
So although most reluctant to impose on them, on the old ladys insistence Li Wans aunt had to move into Paddy-Sweet Cottage with her two daughters.
Barely had the newcomers settled in than Shi Nai, Marquis of Baoling, was transferred to a provincial governorship.
In a few days he would be taking his family to his new post.
Not wanting to part with Xiangyun, the Lady Dowager kept her and had her fetched to their house, directing Xifeng go to give her a separate establishment.
This Xiangyun resolutely declined, however, and at her insistence they let her move in with Baochai instead.
Things were livelier in Grand View Garden now that thirteen people, counting in Xifeng, lived there.
In addition to Li Wan who had senior status there were Yingchun, Tanchun, Xichun, Baochai, Daiyu, Xiangyun, Li Wen, Li Qi, Baoqin and Xiuyan, as well as Xifeng and Baoyu.
Apart from the two married women, the other eleven were all about the same age fifteen, sixteen or seventeen.
Some of them had been born in the same month, on the same day or at the same hour, with the result that they themselves often confused their ages.
Thus the terms elder sister, younger sister, younger brother and elder brother were bandied about at random.
Xianglings whole heart was nowadays set on writing poetry, but she did not like to trouble Baochai too much.
For her, talkative Xiangyuns arrival was a stroke of luck, as the latter was only too glad to be consulted on poetry and would cheerfully hold forth on the subject at all hours of the day and night.
Youre deafening me with this noise, protested Baochai jokingly.
Real scholars would laugh to hear a girl discussing poetry so seriously.
Theyd say youd forgotten your place.
One Xiangling is more than enough without a chatterbox like you joining in and spouting about Du Fus profundity, Wei Yingwus quiet distinction, Wen Tingyuns brilliance and Li Shangyins recondite obscurity.
All these are dead poets why harp on them without any mention of our two living poets?
Which two living poets?
Do tell me, dear sister, begged Xiangyun.
The hard-working eccentric Xiangling and the garrulous lunatic Xiangyun, answered Baochai.
Xiangling and Xiangyun were laughing uproariously when Baoqin arrived.
She was wearing a glittering green and gold cape made of some fabric they did not recognize.
Where did this come from?
asked Baochai.
The old lady got it out for me because it was beginning to hail, replied her cousin.
Xiangling examining it more closely remarked, No wonder its so pretty its made of peacock feathers.
Not peacock feathers, Xiangyun corrected her.
The feathers from wild ducks heads.
That shows how fond of you the old lady is.
Fond as she is of Baoyu, she never gave him this to wear.
As the proverb says, The fortune of each is predestined, put in Baochai.
I never thought shed come here at this time or that, having come, the old lady would take such a fancy to her.
Xiangyun told Baoqin, There are two places here where you can enjoy yourself just as you please the old ladys apartments or here in the Garden.
When you call on Lady Wang, if shes at home its all right to stay and chat with her for a while but if shes out, dont go in.
Theyre a nasty lot there whod all like to do us in.
Baochai, Baoqin, Xiangling and Yinger all laughed.
Baochai said, Thats good sense from a flibbertigibbet like you, but you still talk too bluntly.
Our Baoqin is rather like you.
Youre always saying you wish I were your sister but now I think youd better take my cousin as your younger sister.
With another glance at Baoqin, Xiangyun said, Shes the only one here fit to wear this cape.
Its too good for the rest of us.
As they were chatting Hupo came in with the message, The old lady doesnt want Miss Baochai to be too strict with Miss Baoqin, because shes still very young.
Just let her do as she pleases and ask for whatever she wants, and dont interfere.
Baochai rose to give her assent, after which she nudged Baoqin and said mischievously, I wonder where such good luck as yours comes from.
Better leave us now before we start bullying you.
I dont see in what way Im worse than you.
As she was teasing, Baoyu and Daiyu arrived.
Youre only joking, cousin, said Xiangyun, but some people are really jealous.
If anyone is, it must be him, said Hupo laughingly, pointing at Baoyu.
Oh, no, not him, Baochai and Xiangyun retorted in unison.
If not him, then her.
Giggling, Hupo pointed at Daiyu.
Xiangyun kept silent but Baochai cried, Youre even wider of the mark this time.
She treats my cousin like her own sister in fact shes even fonder of her than I am.
So how could she be jealous?
Dont believe that nonsense Xiangyun talks.
You can never take anything she says seriously.
Baoyu knew very well how narrow-minded Daiyu could be, and having as yet no idea of what had recently passed between her and Baochai he was really afraid she might resent the Lady Dowagers partiality for Baoqin.
Her reactions to Xiangyuns remark and Baochais answer were not what they would once have been but tallied with what Baochai had said, and this puzzled him.
He thought, The relationship between these two has changed, they now seem ten times better friends than the others.
And then he heard Daiyu address Baoqin as younger sister without mentioning her name, as if they were real sisters.
Baoqin was young and warm-hearted, intelligent too, and well-educated from an early age.
After a couple of days there she had formed a general impression of the ha family.
And since the girls gave themselves no airs but were all good to her cousin, she tried likewise to make herself agreeable to them.
Noticing too that Daiyu stood out from the rest, she treated her even more affectionately.
Baoyu observed all this with secret surprise.
Presently Baochai and her cousin rejoined Aunt Xue, Xiangyun went to the Lady Dowagers apartments, and Daiyu returned to her own rooms to rest.
Baoyu followed her there and said with a smile, Although Ive read The Western Chamber and annoyed you by quoting some lines from it in fun, a line has occurred to me which I cant understand.
Ill recite it now and see if you can explain it.
Sensing something behind this she said archly, Go on.
In that scene Trouble Over the Billet-doux there s an excellent line -710 Since when did Liang Hong and Meng Guang become so intimate?
Isnt that superb!
The reference to Liang Hong and Meng Guang is just an ordinary classical allusion, but turned into a question its rather neat.
So, since when?
Can you explain?
Unable to suppress a laugh she replied, Thats a good question.
Well asked in the play, and well asked by you too.
You wouldnt take my word for it before.
Now you two are getting on fine, but Im left out in the cold.
I never knew how truly good she was, but used to think she had ulterior motives.
Daiyu proceeded to give him a full account of all Baochai had said to her when she pulled her up for her gaffe in the drinking game, and her gift of birds-nest during her illness.
This explained matters to Baoyu.
I was wondering since when Liang Hong and Meng Guang started to hit it off so well, he said.
So it all came of her being young and talking too freely.
Then Daiyu spoke of Baoqin, and wept because she had no sister of her own.
There you go again, upsetting yourself for no reason, scolded Baoyu.
Just see, youre thinner this year than last, yet you wont look after yourself.
Every day you work yourself up for no reason at all, and arent satisfied until youve had a good cry.
Wiping her tears she answered, Ive been feeling sick at heart, but I dont seem to cry as much as before.
Though my heart aches, I havent many tears to shed.
You just imagine that because youre so used to crying, he objected.
How can anyones tears dry up?
At this point one of his maids brought him a scarlet woolen cape and the message, Madam Zhu just sent to say that, as its started to snow, she wants to consult you about calling a meeting of the poetry club tomorrow.
While she was still speaking a maid arrived from Li Wan with an invitation for Daiyu, and Baoyu urged her to go with him to Paddy-Sweet Cottage.
Having put on red boots lined with lambskin and with a gold-thread cloud-design applique, a crimson silk cape lined with white fox-fur, a green and gold plaited belt with double rings, and a snow-hat, she walked with him through the snow to Li Wans apartments.
There they found the other girls assembled, most of them in red capes of wool or satin.
Li Wan, however, had on a gown of blue velvet buttoned down the middle, Baochai a pale purple woollen cape embroidered with flower designs, and Xiuyan her ordinary indoor clothes without any outer garments to keep off the snow.
Presently Xiangyun arrived wearing an ermine coat lined with grey squirrel given her by the Lady Dowager, a scarlet woollen hood with a gosling- yellow applique of cloud designs and a golden lining, and a big sable collar.
Look, here comes the Monkey King!
exclaimed Daiyu laughing.
Shes got a cape too, yet shes dressed herself up like a saucy little Tartar.
You should see what Im wearing underneath, chuckled Xiangyun.
Taking off the coat she revealed a narrow-sleeved, none too new green ish yellow satin tunic lined with white squirrel, with fur-lined cuffs and collar, which was embroidered with dragons in gold thread and coloured silks.
Her pink satin breeches were lined with fox fur.
A long-tasselled coloured butterfly belt was fastened tightly round her waist.
Her boots were of green leather.
With her slender build she looked thoroughly neat and dashing.
She loves dressing up like a boy, they teased.
And that costume suits her better than a girls.
Hurry up and discuss the poetry meeting, urged Xiangyun.
I want to know whos to be host.
It was my idea, said Li Wan.
We should have met yesterday, and the next date isnt due for quite some time so I thought, as it happens to have snowed, why shouldnt we get together for a meeting to welcome the newcomers and to write some poems?
What do the rest of you think?
Thats a good idea, responded Baoyu promptly.
But its too late today, and tomorrow if the weather clears it wont be such fun.
The snow may not stop, said the others, Even if it does, this evenings fall is big enough to enjoy.
Theres nothing wrong with this place, but Reed Snow Cottage would be even better, remarked Li Wan.
Ive already sent people there to heat the flues under the floor, and we can sit round the fire and write poems.
I dont suppose the old lady will be in the mood to join us.
And as were just going there for a romp, we need only let Xifeng know.
Each of you can send one tael of silver here, and that ought to be enough.
mdicating Xiangling, Baoqin, Li Wen, Li Qi and Xiuyan, she continued, Well leave these five newcomers out, as well as Yingchun whos poorly and Xichun whos asked for leave.
If you four send your share.
I guarantee that five or six taels will be ample.
Baochai and the others readily agreed, then asked what the subject and the rhyme would be.
Ive already decided, but all in good time, replied Li Wan with a smile.
Youll hear what Ive chosen tomorrow.
After chatting a little longer they went to see the Lady Dowager.
And nothing more of consequence happened that day.
Too excited to sleep soundly, Baoyu got up the next day as soon as it was light to draw the curtains.
Although the blinds were down, it was so bright outside that he concluded regretfully that the weather must have cleared and the sun had come out.
When he raised the blinds, however, to look through the glass window, he discovered that this brightness was not sunlight.
It had been snowing hard all night so that the snow lay over a foot deep, and it was still falling in great flakes like cotton-wool.
In high delight he called for someone to help him with his toilet.
Wearing just his purple velvet gown lined with fox-fur and an otter waistcoat and belt, with a fine coir cape over his shoulders, a rattan hat on his head and pattens on his feet, he set off without delay for Reed Snow Cottage.
Once outside his own gate he gazed round.
All was white except for some green pines and emerald bamboos in the distance, so that he had the sensation of being in a crystal bowl.
As he rounded the foot of the slope he smelt a cold fragrance and, looking over his shoulder, saw a dozen or so crimson plum trees in Green Lattice Nunnery where Miaoyu lived, their blossom, red as rouge, reflected in the snow and remarkably vivid against it.
He stopped there awhile to enjoy the sight.
As he was about to continue on his way, on Wasp-Waist Bridge he saw a messenger with an umbrella sent by Li Wan to invite Xifeng over.
Outside Reed Snow Cottage, maids were sweeping the snow from the path.
This cottage was built on the bank of a stream by a hill.
Its adobe rooms with their thatched roofs and bamboo windows were surrounded by a wattle-fence, and it was possible to fish through the windows.
All around grew clumps of reeds, through which a path meandered to the bamboo bridge of Lotus Fragrance Anchorage.
When the maids saw Baoyu approaching in his rattan hat and coir cape, they burst out laughing.
We were just saying we needed a fisherman, and here you are to fill the bill, they cried.
The young ladies wont be coming till after breakfast.
Youre too impatient.
Baoyu had to go back then, and he had just reached Seeping Fragrance Pavilion when he saw Tanchun in a hooded scarlet woollen cape emerging from Autumn Freshness Studio leaning on the arm of a maid, followed by a serving-woman with a black silk umbrella.
Guessing that she was on her way to see their grandmother, he waited for her by the pavilion and they left the Garden together.
In the Lady Dowagers inner room, Baoqin was doing her hair and changing her clothes.
Soon all the girls arrived and Baoyu set up a clamour, urging them to hurry breakfast because he was hungry.
When finally the tables were laid, however, the first dish was a lamb embryo steamed in milk.
This is a tonic for us old people, said the Lady Dowager.
Its a creature thats never seen the sky and the sun, so Im afraid you children mustnt eat it.
Theres some fresh venison which you can have presently.
They all agreed to this except Baoyu, who was too impatient to wait.
He steeped a bowl of rice in hot tea, added some diced pheasant and hastily swallowed this down.
I know youre busy again today and cant be bothered to eat, said his grandmother.
Keep the venison for him for this evening, she told the maids.
Only when Xifeng assured her that there was plenty, did she say no more about saving it for him.
Xiangyun whispered to Baoyu, If theres fresh venison, lets ask for some to cook ourselves in the Garden.
That would be fun.
Baoyu promptly passed on this request to Xifeng, who ordered a serving-woman to take some venison to the Garden.
Presently they left the Lady Dowager and trooped back to the Garden and to Reed Snow Cottage to hear what subject and rhyme Li Wan had chosen.
But at this point Xiangyun and Baoyu disappeared.
Its no good when those two get together, remarked Daiyu.
Whenever that happens, theres trouble.
They must have slipped off because they have designs on that venison.
Li Wans aunt came in now to watch the fun.
She told her niece, That boy with the jade and the girl with the golden unicorn are fine handsome young people who must have plenty to eat, but there they are planning to eat raw meat and talking as if they meant it.
I cant believe it!
The young people laughed and exclaimed, What an idea!
Somebody fetch them, quick!
This is all Xiangyuns doing, said Daiyu.
What did I tell you?
Li Wan hurried out to find the two of them.
If you want to eat raw meat, Ill take you to the old ladys place, she said.
I shant care then if you eat a whole deer and fall ill it wont be my responsibility.
Look how its snowing and how cold it is.
Dont go making trouble for me.
Were not eating it raw, countered Baoyu.
Were going to grill it.
Thats all right then, said Li Wan, eyeing the barbecue and spits which some old servants had brought.
Be careful now, and dont cry if you cut your fingers!
With that warning she went in again with Tanchun.
Now Pinger arrived, sent by Xifeng to explain that she was unable to come as she was busy distributing the New Year allowances.
Xiangyun insisted that Pinger must stay with them, and the maid was only too willing, for she was naturally playful and always up to endless pranks with her mistress.
Seeing the fun they were having, she took off her bracelets to join Baoyu and Xiangyun by the barbecue, and suggested grilling three pieces first to try.
Baochai and Daiyu, being used to a barbecue, were not surprised by this but to Baoqin and Li Wans aunt it seemed very strange.
By now, Li Wan and Tanchun had fixed the subject and rhyme.
Tanchun said to Li Wan, Just smell that venison!
If it smells so good even from here, I must try some too.
She joined the party outside and Li Wan followed.
All your guests are here, she protested.
Wont you stop eating?
Xiangyun, still munching, replied, Its only after eating this that I feel like drinking, and I need wine to give me inspiration.
Without this venison I couldnt possibly write a poem today.
Her eye fell on Baoqin in her wild duck cape, who was standing there smiling at them.
Come here, silly!
she cried.
Come and try some.
How dirty it looks, laughed Baoqin.
Go and taste some, urged Baochai.
Its really delicious.
Cousin Daiyus so delicate, it would give her indigestion.
If it werent for that, shed like some too.
Baoqin went over then to try a morsel, and finding it good she helped herself to more.
Presently a young maid came from Xifeng to fetch Pinger.
Miss Xiangyun wont let me go.
You go back first, Pinger told her.
Not long after the maid had left, Xifeng came in person, a cape over her shoulders.
So you have such a treat without telling me!
she scolded, joining the group around the barbecue.
Where did all these beggars come from?
cried Daiyu.
Well, well!
Reed Snow Cottage is out of luck today, all messed up by Xiangyun.
My heart bleeds for it.
A lot you know, retorted Xiangyun.
A real scholar can afford to be eccentric.
You pretend to be so refined and pure, its disgusting!
Stuffing ourselves now with this venison will inspire us presently to produce some fine lines.
If you dont make good that boast, threatened Paochai, youll have to pay the penalty by bringing up that meat and swallowing some of those reeds under the snow!
When they had finished eating, they washed their hands and rinsed their mouths.
Pinger, looking for her bracelets, found one missing.
She searched everywhere but there was no trace of it, to everyones surprise.
I know where its gone, said Xifeng with a smile.
Theres no need to look for it now.
Just get on with your poems.
I guarantee youll get it back within three days.
Then she asked, What are you writing today?
The old lady says it will soon be New Year, and we should make some lantern riddles to amuse ourselves in the first month.
Thats right, they agreed.
Wed forgotten.
We must hurry up and make up a few good ones to guess in the first month.
They went into the room with the heated floor, where refreshments and drinks were ready.
Pasted on the wall was the subject on which they 1405 were to write, and the rhyme and metre.
Baochai and Xiangyun, going over to have a look, saw that they were to compose a collective poem on the scenery in five-character lines using rhymes from the xiao group of rhymes.
The order in which to write was not stipulated.
Li Wan proposed, As Im a poor hand at versifying, let me just do the first three lines.
Whoevers quickest can go on from there.
We should arrange some sort of order, protested Baochai.
If you want to know the upshot, read the next chapter.
Chapter 50 In Reed Snow Cottage Girls Vie in Composing a Collective Poem In Warm Scented Arbour Fine Lantern Riddles Are Made We must have some sort of order.
Let me write out the numbers, proposed Baochai.
She made them draw lots.
And Li Wan, as it happened, drew first place.
If thats how it is, Ill give you the first line, volunteered Xifeng.
Better still, responded the others laughingly.
Baochai put down Phoenix before Old Peasant of Sweet Paddy, while Li Wan explained the subject to Xifeng.
The latter thought for a while.
You mustnt laugh!
she warned.
I have only one line rather a crude one, too but I wouldnt know how to go on from there.
The cruder the better, they replied.
Lets hear it, and then you can go off and attend to your own business.
I suppose when it snows the north wind must blow, said Xifeng.
At any rate I heard it all last night.
So my line is The north wind blew hard all night.
Will that do?
The others exchanged smiling glances.
It may be crude but it doesnt show what is to follow, and thats the proper way to start a poem, was their verdict.
So besides being good, it leaves plenty of scope for the others.
Lets start with this line.
Hurry up and write it down, Old Peasant of Sweet Paddy, then complete the couplet and begin a new one.
Xifeng, Aunt Li and Pinger drank a few more cups of wine with them, then went off on their own business.
Meanwhile Li Wan wrote -355 Xifeng -732 The north wind blew hard all night After this she went on to write down the following lines composed by herself and others -355 Li Wan The door opens on a flurry of snow.
Pity the pure white mingling with the mud.... -355 Xiangling Jade scattered on the earth below.
Fain would it revive the dead grass -355 Tanchun But no veil on withered plants throw.
The village brew, matured, is costly now -355 Li Chi With a good crop the granaries overflow.
Ash flying from the pipe shows the change of season.
Li Wen The Dipper turns and longer the nights grow.
Cold hills have lost their vivid green -355 Xiuyan In frozen creeks no tide is heard to flow.
The snow hangs lightly on sparse willow boughs.
-355 Xiangyun But slides off tattered plantain leaves drooped low.
Musk-ink is melted in the precious tripod -355 Baoqin Rich sables hide the silken sleeves below.
Brightness the mirror by the window catches -355 Daiyu Scent clings to walls with pepper dye aglow.
A side wind blows and blows incessantly -355 Baoyu While the clear dream lingers slow.
Whence comes the sound of the plum-blossom flute 7 -355 Baochai Who is it that on green jade pipe doth blow?
The giant turtle fears the earth may sink Li Wan interposed at this point, Ill go and see about getting some wine heated for you.
Baochai urged Baoqin to go on but before she could do so, Xiangyun stood up boisterously.
-355 Xiangyun Dragons fight, the cloud-wrack billows to and fro.
A lone boat puts back to the lonely shore.... Baoqin, standing up too, continued -355 Baoqin A whip points at the bridge, the poet must go.
Fur coats are issued to the garrison.... Xiangyun could never bear to take second place.
And being more quick-witted than the others, arching her eyebrows now she straightened up and declaimed -355 Xiangyun Cotton-padded clothes to conscripts in the snow.
Hard the going through gullies and hills.... Well done!
cried Baochai, and continued -355 Baochai They must not shake the branches hanging low.
Soft and gleaming swirls the snow.... Daiyu cut in -355 Daiyu In swaying dance, now swift, now slow.
Fresh taros are steamed for a treat.... She nudged Baoyu, but he was too intent on watching Baoqin, Baochai and Daiyu compete against Xiangyun to be bothered to join in himself.
Prompted by Daiyu, however, he improvised -355 Baoyu To scattered salt the song compares the snow.
The boatman is fishing still in his coir cape.... Youre no good!
cried Xiangyun with a laugh.
Keep out of this.
Youre only holding us up.
Baoqin took over.
-355 Baoqin -1511 Silent the woodmans axe, unheard each blow.
Hill after hill like crouching elephants.... Xiangyun struck in -355 Xiangyun A single snake-like path winds to and fro.
Congealed by cold these flowers of ice.... As Baochai and the others exclaimed in admiration, Tanchun went on -355 Tanchun Beauty no frost can blight or overthrow.
In the deep courtyard chilly sparrows take fright.... As Xiangyun was thirstily gulping down some tea, Xiuyan took this chance to join in.
-355 Xiuyan In lonely hills an old owl hoots its woe.
Snow dances up and down the courtyard steps.... Xiangyun hastily put down her cup to interject -355 Xiangyun Drifts at will on the lake below.
Glittering bright in dawns clear light.... -355 Daiyu Setting the whole night aglow.
Truly the cold of three feet of snow is forgotten.... Xiangyun hastily continued -355 Xiangyun Its promise clears the sovereigns gloomy brow.
Who cares for the one lying frozen.... Baoqin cut in gleefully -355 Baoqin While merry-makers, feasting, toast the snow.
A white silk belt from the heavenly loom is broken.... -355 Xiangyun Whiter than mermaids silk from sea-market below, Before she could start a new couplet, Daiyu put in -355 Daiyu Deserted pools are locked in loneliness.... Xiangyun swiftly rounded this off.
-355 Xiangyun Back to his humble lodge the poor scholar would go.
Again Baoqin cut in -355 Baoqin The ice to make our tea is slow to boil Xiangyun who was having great fun, laughed and went on -355 Xiangyun The leaves to warm the wine will hardly glow.
With a giggle Daiyu continued -355 Daiyu Snow covers the broom of the monk up on the hill.... Baoqin gaily capped this -355 Baoqin It hides the boys lyre below.
Xiangyun, doubled up with mirth, now babbled something so quickly that the others had to ask her to repeat it.
She gasped.
-355 Xiangyun On the stone tower sleeps an idle crane.... Hugging herself to stop her sides from splitting, Daiyu fairly shouted -355 Daiyu And silken quilts are warm, the fond cats know....
They rattled off the next lines between fits of laughter.
-355 Baoqin From the moon cave roll silver waves.... -355 Xiangyun Cloud ramparts hide the crimson glow.... -355 Daiyu One can almost taste the scent of wet plum-blossom.... A fine line!
exclaimed Baochai, and capped it -355 Baochai And from the dripping bamboos sweet melodies flow.
-355 Baoqin Snow-flakes wet the belt with a design of love-birds.... -355 Xiangyun Or congeal on emerald hairpins in a row.... -355 Daiyu They hang in the air although there is no wind.... -355 Baoqin And though there is no rain still hiss down slow.... Xiangyun had collapsed by now in a fit of laughter.
The rest of the party had long since opted out to enjoy watching these three rivals compete.
Daiyu urged Xiangyun to go on.
So even you can run out of ideas, she teased.
Let me hear if you cant rattle on a bit longer.
Xiangyun, lying in Baochais lap, was shaking with laughter.
Baochai made her sit up, declaring, If you can use all the rhymes in this category, then Ill admit youve won.
Call this versifying?
she spluttered, getting up.
Im fighting for my life!
Whose fault is that?
they retorted laughingly.
Tanchun, having decided earlier on that she could not compete, had been writing down their lines.
She told them now, This still requires an ending.
Li Wen took over and added -355 Li Wen These lines record this happy day.... Li Qi added the concluding line -370 Li Qi And praise on this sagacious reign bestow.
Thats enough, said Li Wan.
Even if we havent used up all the rhymes, to do that would sound forced and awkward.
After a careful reckoning they found that Xiangyun had made up the most lines.
The credit should go to that venison!
they quipped.
It hangs together quite well when you read it through, observed Li Wan.
Only Baoyu flunked again.
Im no good at collective poems, he rejoined.
Youll just have to make allowances for me.
We cant make allowances every time, she retorted.
You complain either that the rhymes too difficult, the judge too unfair, or that youre no good at collective poems.
Today youll have to pay the penalty.
I was struck just now by the red plum-blossom in Green Lattice Nunnery, and wanted to pick a spray for this vase but because I cant stand Miaoyus ways, I never have anything to do with her.
Now well punish you by sending you to fetch a spray.
-378 A good penalty, refined and amusing, was the general verdict.
Baoyu agreed readily.
He was starting out when Xiangyun and Daiyu both spoke up together.
Its very cold outside.
Have some hot wine before you go.
Xiangyun picked up the wine pot and Daiyu filled a large goblet.
After drinking our wine, if you dont carry out your mission well redouble your punishment, Xiangyun threatened him.
Having tossed off the wine he went out into the snow.
Li Wan told some servants to accompany him, but Daiyu stopped them.
Theres no need, she said.
If other people go with him, he wont get it.
Yes, youre right.
Li Wan nodded and ordered a maid to fetch a tall vase with a narrow neck and sloping shoulders, and fill it with water in readiness.
Presently we should write some poems on red plum-blossom, she suggested.
Xiangyun promptly volunteered to do the first one.
Oh, no, you dont, laughed Baochai.
Youve done quite enough for today.
Its no fun if you hog everything and leave the rest of us idle.
Baoyu has got to be punished when he comes back.
He says hes no good at collective couplets.
All right then, well make him write a poem on his own.
Quite right, agreed Daiyu.
And Ive another idea.
Just now we didnt make enough couplets.
We should get those who contributed least to write on red plum-blossom.
Thats an excellent idea, approved Baochai.
Xiuyan, Li Wen and Li Qi had no chance to shine although they are, after all, our guests, because Baoqin, Daiyu and Xiangyun were so greedy.
This time, the rest of us should keep out of it and let just the three of them write.
Qis not too good at poetry, said Li Wan.
Let Baoqin take her place.
Baochai had to accept this.
She added, Lets choose the three characters red plum flower as rhymes.
Each of them can write a heptasyllabic regulated verse, Xiuyan using the rhyme red, Wen plum and Baoqin flower.
Thats all very well, said Li Wan.
But we mustnt let Baoyu off.
Ive another good subject for him, put in Xiangyun quickly.
Asked what it was, she replied, Calling on Miaoyu to Beg for Red Plum-Blossom.
Wouldnt that be fun?
They were voicing their approval when Baoyu came back, beaming, holding a branch of red blossom.
The maids at once took it and put it in the vase, while all the others expressed their appreciation.
Go ahead and enjoy it, said Baoyu.
You dont know the trouble it cost me.
Tanchun handed him another cup of hot wine, and maids came to take his cape and hat and shake off the snow.
Maids from different apartments had brought extra clothing for all their young mistresses, and Xiren had sent Baoyu an old jacket lined with fox-fur.
Li Wan ordered a dish of steamed taros and two plates of tangerines, orange s and olives to be sent back to Xiren, while Xiangyun told Baoyu the subject just chosen for him and urged him to hurry up and write.
Do let me choose my own rhymes, good cousins, he begged.
Dont set the rhymes for me.
The rest agreed, All right.
Do as you like.
Meanwhile they were looking at the plum-blossom bough.
Only about two feet in height with a side branch nearly five or six feet long, it had branchlets coiling like dragons or worms, others pointed like brushes, or densely twigged as a forest and the petals, red as rouge, were fragrant as orchids.
As the others were admiring this, Xiuyan, Li Wen and Baoqin composed and wrote out their poems.
The rest read them in the order of their rhymes as follows -740 RED PLUM-BLOSSOM Rhyming red -740 Braving the cold it blossoms for the east wind Ere peach trees bloom or apricots turn red In a dream, rosy clouds bar the way to Mount Luofu, But to Yulings eternal spring my soul has fled.
-4354 Green sepals, rouged, blend into brilliant torches, Tipsy snow-sprites over shattered rainbows have sped We can see this is no ordinary beauty That in the snow and ice blooms pink and red.
-4368 Xing Xiuyan Rhyming plum -4444 What loveliness assails my drunken eyes?
-4354 This not the white I sing, but the red plum.
-4444 Its frozen cheeks are stained with tears of blood, Its heart though free from misery is numb.
Transformed by an elixir wrongly swallowed, Down it slips, its old guise east off, from Elysium.
Magnificent the spring north and south of the Yangtze Bees and butterflies who doubt this do not come!
-4368 Li Wen Rhyming flower -4354 Like rich girls in spring finery competing, -4444 Stark boughs burst into flower.
Still courts, winding balustrades, with no white plum Stream and lonely hills glow with sunset at this hour.
Like fairy bark on red stream floating free, Fluting drifts chill in the dreaming maidens bower.
It must have sprung from seeds in paradise Past doubting this, though changed in form the flower.
Xue Baoqin They praised all these poems delightedly pointing out that the last was the best.
Baoyu was amazed that Baoqin, although the youngest, had the quickest wit and Daiyu and Xiangyun poured a small cup of wine to congratulate her.
All three poems have their merits, said Baochai.
You two have grown tired of making fun of me every day, so now youre picking on her.
Li Wan asked Baoyu, Are you ready?
I did concoct something, he replied.
But their poems so overawed me that Ive forgotten it.
Let me think again.
Xiangyun struck her hand-stove with a copper poker.
Im starting to beat the drum, she warned.
If youre not ready by the time I stop, youll have to pay another forfeit.
Im ready, he answered.
-378 Dictate it to me.
Daiyu picked up a brush.
Xiangyun struck the hand-stove, crying, One!
All right, agreed Baoyu.
Take this down.
He declaimed Before the drinking starts, ere poems are made Daiyu shook her head as she wrote.
A nondescript opening.
Hurry up!
ordered Xiangyun.
-378 He continued He goes to the Fairy Isles in search of spring, asking a boon.
-378 Daiyu and Xiangyun nodded.
Thats more like it.
He proceeded -755 Not in quest of dew from the Bodhisattvas kundi, But to beg a plum branch by the fence of the Goddess of the Moon.
-378 Once more Daiyu shook her head as she wrote this down.
Too arty.
Xiangyun hastily struck the stove again.
Baoyu went on -763 He returns to earth with a load of cold red snow, A fragrant cloud cut far from the dusty world Its forked boughs resting on the poets slim shoulders, His clothes by moss from the nunnery still purled.
When Daiyu had finished writing this out and the others were discussing it, some maids ran in to announce The old ladys coming!
All hurried out to meet her, commenting, What a good mood she must be in!
She could be seen in the distance wearing a big cape with a grey squirrel-fur hood, seated in a small bamboo sedan-chair sheltered by a black silk umbrella, and surrounded by her maids, each holding an umbrella.
Li Wan and the young people were hastening to meet them when the Lady Dowager sent word that they should stay where they were.
Upon reaching them she announced, Ive given Lady Wang and Xifeng the slip.
Though the snow lies so deep, Im all right in this chair but I didnt want them to come traipsing through the snow.
Calling out greetings, they pressed forward to take her cape and help her out of the chair.
Her first remark on entering the room was, What beautiful plum-blossom!
You certainly know how to enjoy yourselves.
Ive come at the right time.
Li Wan had already ordered maids to spread a big wolf-skin rug in the middle of the kang for the old lady.
Go on with your fun, and dont stop eating or drinking, she said when she had sat down on the rug.
Now that the days are shorter Ive given up taking a nap after lunch.
I was playing cards when I suddenly thought of you, so I came to join in your fun.
By now Li Wan had passed her a hand-stove, and Tanchun brought over clean chopsticks and a cup and poured some warm wine for her.
The old lady took a sip.
Whats on that plate there?
she asked.
They brought it over and told her, Quails cured in wine.
That will do nicely, she said.
Pull off some bits of the leg meat for me.
Li Wan assented and did so, after first calling for water to wash her hands.
Just sit down as you were and go on chatting, urged the old lady.
I like listening.
She told Li Wan, You must sit down too as if I werent here, or else I shall go away.
All resumed their seats then, except Li Wan, who moved to the lowest place.
What were you doing?
the Lady Dowager asked.
When informed that they had been writing poems she said, Youd do better to make up some lantern riddles for all of us to enjoy after New Year.
They agreed to this.
After some more conversation she remarked, Its damp here.
You mustnt stay too long or you may catch cold.
Xichuns place is warmer than this.
Lets go and see how shes getting on with her painting, and whether it will be ready by New Year.
By New Year?
they exclaimed.
Not likely!
It probably wont be ready till the Dragon-Boat Festival.
Well.
I never!
Is it going to take her longer to paint the Garden than it took the workmen to build it?
She mounted her chair again then, and the whole party accompanied her past Scented Lotus Pavilion and along a covered walk with at either end an archway, both sides of which were inset with stone tablets.
They passed through the western arch, which on its outer side bore the inscription Through the Clouds, on the inner side Across the Moon, and entered Xichuns compound by the front northern gate.
By the time the Lady Dowager alighted, Xichun had come out to meet her and lead them all along the verandah to her bedroom.
Above its door was the inscription Warm Scented Arbour, and perfumed air struck warm on their cheeks as attendants lifted the red felt portiere.
As soon as they were inside, before even sitting down, the Lady Dowager asked to see Xichuns painting.
Xichun explained that it was difficult to mix colours in such cold weather, as they congealed.
I was afraid of spoiling it, so Ive put it away, she concluded.
I want it for New Year, so dont be lazy!
teased the old lady.
You must fetch it out at once and go on with it.
As she was speaking, Xifeng, in a purple woollen gown, made a smiling entrance.
What a dance youve led me, Old Ancestress!
she cried.
Coming here without a word to anyone.
The Lady Dowager was pleased to see her.
I didnt want you to come out in the cold thats why I wouldnt let them tell you, she replied.
Youre an artful puss to have found me after all.
Theres no need to show your dutifulness in this way.
I didnt come out of any sense of duty, countered Xifeng laughingly.
When I found your place so quiet and questioned the maids, they wouldnt tell me where you were.
Just suggested I try the Garden.
I was puzzling over this when a few nuns turned up.
I realized they must have come with an alms list, or to make their annual requests for donations or incense money.
So many people apply to our Old Ancestress just before New Year, I knew youd run away to avoid being dunned.
Now Ive come to report to our Old Ancestress Your duns have gone, you can come out of hiding.
Ive some very tender pheasant ready.
So please come back for dinner.
If you leave it any later, itll be overcooked.
Amid the general merriment that followed, and before the old lady could make any retort, Xifeng ordered her sedan-chair.
The Lady Dowager mounted it with Xifengs help, in smiling acquiescence, and was carried through the east gate of the covered walk, chatting with the rest of the party.
All about lay snow, soft as powder, bright as silver.
And suddenly, at the top of a slope, they saw Baoqin in the cape of wild ducks down, with a maid behind her carrying a vase of red plum-blossom.
So there she is!
they cried laughingly.
No wonder two people were missing.
Shes got herself some plum-blossom as well.
Just look!
exclaimed the old lady in delight.
This snowy slope matched with a girl like her, in that costume too, and with plum-blossom in the background what does it remind you of?
Its like Qiu Yings t painting The Beauty in Snow which hangs in your room, madam, some of them answered.
The Lady Dowager shook her head.
No, the girl in that painting hasnt a costume like hers, and she isnt a patch on Baoqin for looks, either.
Even as she spoke, someone in a red felt cape stepped out from behind Baoqin.
Which of the girls is that?
asked the old lady.
All the girls are here, they told her.
Thats Baoyu.
My eyes are failing, she sighed.
While talking they had drawn level with Baoyu and Baoqin.
Smilling, Baoyu told Baochai, Daiyu and the rest, Just now I went back to Green Lattice Nunnery, and Miaoyus given you each a spray of plum-blossom.
Theyve already been sent to your rooms.
As they thanked him for going to such trouble, they left the Garden and made their way to the Lady Dowagers quarters.
They were chatting there after dinner when Aunt Xue arrived.
I havent come over to see you all day because of this heavy snow, she told the old lady.
Are you in low spirits, madam?
You should have gone out to enjoy the snowy landscape.
What makes you think Im feeling low?
I went out and amused myself for a while with the girls.
Last night I was thinking of asking my sister for the use of the Garden for one day, to invite you to a simple meal so as to enjoy the snow.
But I found youd gone to bed early, and as Baochai told me you werent feeling too well I didnt like to bother you.
If Id known, I should have invited you.
Its only the tenth month, and this is the first fall of snow this winter, rejoined the old lady.
Youll have plenty of chances to treat us later on.
I hope so, said Aunt Xue.
That will give me an opportunity to show my respect.
Mind you dont forget, aunt!
cried Xifeng playfully.
Why not weigh out fifty taels of silver now and give it to me to keep?
Then as soon as it snows again, Ill prepare the feast.
Thatll save you trouble and the danger of forgetting.
The Lady Dowager chuckled.
Yes, just give her fifty taels, she said to Aunt Xue, and well take half each.
When it snows, Ill excuse myself on the pretext of illness, so as to save you trouble, while Xifeng and I reap all the benefit.
Xifeng clapped her hands.
Excellent!
Just what I was thinking.
General laughter greeted this sally.
Bah!
For shame!
exclaimed the Lady Dowager.
Youve always got an eye to the main chance.
Aunt Xue is our guest and its we who should be inviting her, instead of neglecting her so badly.
How can we let her spend money on us?
Yet instead of issuing an invitation, you have the nerve to ask for fifty taels.
Youve no sense of shame at all.
No ones as shrewd as our Old Ancestress, commented Xifeng.
She was just sounding you out, aunt.
If youd really forked up fifty taels, shed have gone halves with me.
Now that her scheme doesnt look like coming off, she turns around to shift the blame to me, talking in that high-minded way.
All right then, instead of asking Aunt Xue for money, Ill let her treat the old lady at my expense and Ill offer our Old Ancestress another packet of fifty taels to make up for my officiousness.
Hows that?
By this time all the others were prostrate with laughter.
The Lady Dowager then reiterated that Baoqin, with the plum-blossom in the snow, had looked prettier than a picture.
She asked her age as well as the hour, day and month of her birth, and wanted to know all about her family.
Aunt Xue guessed that she wished to arrange a match between Baoqin and Baoyu, and she would have been quite willing had the girl not been promised already to a son of the Mei family.
But as the old lady had made no direct proposal, she could not say so outright.
She answered therefore in a roundabout way Its a pity this poor child has had no luck.
Before her father died two years ago, she saw a good deal of the world and travelled to all sorts of beauty spots with her parents.
Her father knew how to enjoy life.
And as he owned shops everywhere, he used to take his family to stay in different provinces for several months or a year at a time, until theyd visited more than half the country.
Last time he was here he betrothed her to Academician Meis son but the year after that he died.
And now her mother is a victim to asthma.... She was interrupted at this point by Xifeng, who heaved a long sigh.
Too bad!
she exclaimed.
I was on the point of proposing a match for her, but shes already engaged.
Whom were you going to propose?
asked the old lady with a smile.
Never you mind, Old Ancestress.
I was convinced theyd make an ideal couple.
But as shes engaged its no use bringing it up.
Id better hold my tongue.
The Lady Dowager knew very well whom Xifeng had in mind, but in view of Baoqins engagement she said no more.
After a little more chat they party broke up, and the night passed without further incident.
The next morning the sky had cleared.
After breakfast the old lady told Xichun, Never mind the weather but get on with your painting, and try to finish it before New Year.
Of course, if you really cant, it doesnt matter.
The main thing is to lose no time in painting in Baoqin and her maid with the plum-blossom, just the way they looked yesterday.
This was a tall order, but Xichun had to agree.
When the others went to see how she was getting on, they found her lost in thought.
We can chat while shes thinking, Li Wan told the rest.
Yesterday the old lady asked us to make up some lantern riddles so when I went home with Qi and Wen, and we couldnt sleep, I made up two using quotations from the Four Books, and they thought up two each as well.
Yes, we ought to get to work on those riddles, the others agreed.
Lets hear yours first and see if we can guess the answers.
Guanyin Goddess of Mercy lacks a chronicle, said Li Wan.
The answer should be a line from the Four Books.
-378 Xiangyun promptly guessed, The end is supreme goodness.
Baochai smiled.
First think about chronicle.
Try again, urged Li Wan.
Ill make a guess, said Daiyu.
Is it though good there is no documentation ?
That must be right, cried the others.
Li Wan continued, A poolful of plants what are they?
Just flags and reeds, responded Xiangyun promptly.
I must be right this time.
Yes, good for you, said Li Wan.
Here is Wens riddle The water flows cold by the rocks.
And the answer is the name of a man of old.
-378 Shan Tao?
2 asked Tanchun.
Thats right, said Li Wen.
Qis riddle is the word glow-worm, Li Wan went on.
And the answer is a single word.
They cudgelled their brains for a long time.
Then Baoqin said, This ones deep.
Is the answer flower?
-378 Youve hit the nail on the head, Li Qi told her.
What has glow-worm got to do with flower?
some of them demanded.
Most ingenious, remarked Daiyu with a smile.
Doesnt grass turn into glow-worms?
3 The character for flower consists of the grass radical and the character for metamorphosis, doesnt it?
The others laughed when they caught on and said.
Very good.
Theyre all good, but theyre not the sort of riddle the old lady wants, observed Baochai.
Wed better make up some about everyday objects, which everyone can enjoy.
-378 All agreed to this.
After a moments thought Xiangyun volunteered, Ive got one written after the melody Dian Jiang Chun, about some thing very common.
See if you can guess the answer.
She recited -755 Parted from his valleys and streams, -748 He fools about midst mankind In utter futility.
Fame and profit are vanity.
-755 And nothing is left behind.
For a long time they failed to guess the answer.
Some suggested a monk, others a Taoist, yet others a marionette.
Youre all wrong, declared Baoyu, who had been chuckling to himself for a while.
Ive got it.
It must be a monkey in a circus.
-378 Xiangyun confirmed that he was right.
The first part makes sense, said the others.
But what does the last line mean?
Is there any performing monkey that hasnt got its tail docked?
asked Xiangyun.
All the others protested laughingly, Even when making riddles, shes full of monkey-tricks!
Li Wan now turned to Baoqin.
Aunt Xue was telling us yesterday that youve travelled a good deal, and seen lots of sights.
Do try your hand at some riddles.
And since you write such good poems, why not make them in verse?
Baoqin nodded cheerfully and went off to rack her brains.
Meanwhile Baochai was ready with a riddle which she recited -748 Tier upon tier of carved cedar and sandalwood, By no craftsmen was it reared Even when the sky is swept by wind and rain No holy bells are heard.
While the rest were trying to solve this, Baoyu chimed in Vanished from heaven and the world of men, The bamboo frame bids us beware!
Gaze up to catch the message from the phoenix, And sigh your answer to the azure air.
By now Daiyu had one ready too and she declaimed -755 No need to tether these fine steeds with ropes, Galloping round the walls how fierce they seem!
At their masters bidding they speed fast as lightning Only three fairy isles on the giant turtles back have left a name.
Tanchun now had one ready too, but before she could tell it to them Baoqin came back.
Ive visited many places of historical interest since I was small, she said.
So Ive made ten verses about ten of them.
Theyre very crude, but at least they recall the past and the answers are everyday objects.
I hope youll guess them.
How ingenious!
exclaimed the others.
Wont you write them out for us?
If you want to know more about this, read the next chapter.
Chapter 51 Baoqin Composes Poems Recalling the Past An Incompetent Physician Prescribes Strong Medicine Baoqin told the others that she had written ten riddles in the form of quatrains, about famous places she had visited in different provinces.
How original!
they cried.
They crowded round to read the poems, which were as follows RED CLIFF -1488 Wrecked by Red Cliff, choking the stream, Nothing remains in the empty hulks but names Yet countless gallant souls are roaming there Where cold winds sough and fan the leaping flames.
COCHIN CHINA 2 -1488 His rule is strengthened by great bells of bronze, Whose sound has spread to tribes beyond the seas Ma Yuan assuredly achieved great deeds, And the iron flute of Zhang Liang 3 needs no praise.
MOUNT ZHONGSHAN 4 -1488 Fame and profit have never kept you company, Abruptly haled into the dusty world To sever all the strings attached is hard Dont murmur, then, if taunts at you are hurled.
HUAJYIN 5 -1488 Even the brave must guard against savage hounds He was made Prince of Qi and died straightway But let not the worldly despise him He remembered the gift of a meal till his dying day.
GUANGHNG 6 -1488 Cicadas chirp, crows roost, in a flash they are gone How looks the landscape by Sui Dyke today?
I was the emperors romantic reputation That was to blame for so much calumny.
PEACH-LEAFFORD 7 -1488 Flowers bloom in idleness by the shallow pool, Peach-Leaf must part company at last with the bough Many mansions stood here in the Six Dynasties, Only a portrait hangs on the bare wall now.
THE GREEN TOMB 8 -1488 The dark stream is stagnant, choked, The icy strings of the lute all her grief proclaim How absurd they were, the rules of the House of Han Wood the carpenter scorns should feel eternal shame.
MAWEI SLOPE 9 -1488 Lonely traces of rouge and perspiration remain, But with the flowing water her beauty has gone Yet some vestiges of her charm still linger on, And even today a fragrance clings to her gown.
PIJDONG MONASThRY 0 -1488 A young maid, low-born and flippant, By stealth brings a couple together Though caught out at last by her mistress, She has induced her young lady to join her lover.
PLUM-BLOSSOM NUNNERY -1488 Not by plum trees but by willows, Who will pick up the beautys portrait here?
It is no use longing for a reunion in spring.
Autumn means parting for another year.
They all admired the subtlety of these riddles, Baochai, however, commented, The first eight deal with authenticated incidents in history, but its harder for us to understand the last two fictitious ones.
I think you ought to write two others instead.
Daiyu at once objected, Dont be so sanctimonious and strait-laced, dear cousin.
The last two incidents may not appear in historical records, and not having read the romances from which they come we may not know the details but weve surely all seen the operas based on them.
Why, even three-year-olds know them, not to say us.
Thats quite right, agreed Tanchun.
Besides, Li Wan added, these poems are about places shes visited.
What if these two stories are fictitious?
Plenty of legends have come down from ancient times, and well-meaning busybodies have even faked relics to fool men.
For instance, that year we come to the capital we passed three or four tombs on the way said to be Lord Guans.
Well, theres historical evidence for Lord Guans life and actions, but how could one man have so many tombs?
They appeared, of course, as often happens, because later generations admired him and wanted to show their respect.
Ive since learned from a book of geography that Lord Guan isnt the only one to have several tombs so do most famous men of old.
As for legendary sites, there are even more of them.
So though the stories referred to in these two riddles are fictitious, theyre mentioned in ballads and operas, even in temple oracles.
The whole world knows them.
Each one is a household word.
Besides, its not as if we ourselves had read The Western Chamber and The Peony Pavilion, which are licentious works.
So it doesnt matter if these two verses are kept.
Then Baochai did not insist, and they tried for a while to guess the answers, but with no success.
In winter the days are short, it was soon dinner-time, and they went to the mansion for a meal.
Then a maid reported to Lady Wang that Xirens brother Hua Zifang had brought word that their mother was ill and wanted to see her daughter.
He had come to beg permission to take her home.
Of course we cant keep her if her mother wants her, was Lady Wangs reply.
She sent for Xifeng and told her to see to the matter.
Xifeng agreed and went back to her apartments.
She asked Zhou Ruis wife to break the news to Xiren, and gave her these instructions You must get another matron beside yourself and a couple of young maids to go with Xiren.
Four older attendants are to escort her carriage.
Take a big one yourselves and a smaller one for the girls.
As Mrs. Zhou was leaving to carry out these orders, Xifeng added, Xiren is a sensible girl.
Tell her from me to dress smartly and to take a big bundle of good clothes in a handsome wrapper, as well as a good hand-stove.
She must come and let me see her before she leaves.
Mrs. Zhou assented and went off.
After some time, sure enough, Xiren arrived, having changed her clothes, accompanied by Mrs. Chou and two maids who were carrying her hand-stove and bundle.
Xifeng saw that she had some fine gold pins ornamented with pearls in her hair, and was wearing an ermine-lined peach-red silk tapestry jacket with a hundred-beads design, a yellow ish- green padded skirt embroidered with coloured silk and gold thread, and a black satin coat lined with squirrel.
These three garments which your mistress gave you are of good quality, acknowledged Xifeng with a smile.
But the coats on the drab side.
Its not warm enough either.
You need one with thicker fur.
The mistress gave me this squirrel, and the ermine too, Xiren replied.
She promised to give me a fox-fur as well at New Year.
Well, I have a fox-fur, but I dont care for the way the fringe hangs and was meaning to have it altered, said Xifeng.
You may as well have that for the time being.
When the mistress orders a coat for you for New Year, Ill have it made for myself instead.
That 11 compensate me for the one Im giving you.
Everybody present laughed.
We know your way of talking, madam, they said.
You give with both hands, the whole year round, privately giving away all sorts of things to make up for the presents that the mistress forgets.
Theres really no saying how much youve given.
And you never charge the mistress for them, of course.
Yet you talk in this stingy way to raise a laugh.
How can the mistress remember all these things, which arent important anyway?
Xifeng retorted.
But if no one saw to them, it would reflect badly on the family and Im quite willing to put my hand in my pocket to keep everyone decently dressed for the sake of my own good name.
Im in charge of the household, after all, and if everyone here looked like scarecrows Id be blamed for fitting you out in such a beggarly way.
This impressed them all.
No one else can hold a candle to you, madam, they said.
So considerate as you are to Her Ladyship, and kindness itself to those of us beneath you.
Pinger had been sent to fetch Xiren the fox-fur-lined coat of slate- blue silk tapestry with eight circular designs which Xifeng had worn the previous day.
Now, seeing that Xirens wrapper was of black and white silk gauze, lined with pink silk, and in it she had only two worn silk-padded jackets and one fur jacket, Xifeng told Pinger to bring her own jade-coloured velvet wrapper with a silk lining, as well as a cape for the snow.
Pinger brought two capes, one of worn crimson felt, the other a rather newer one of red satin.
One is already too much, Xiren demurred.
The felts for you, chuckled Pinger.
Ive brought the other at the same time to send to Miss Xiuyan.
Yesterday, in that heavy snow, the others were all wearing felt, camlet or satin, and it was really a splendid sight a dozen or so red capes against the snow.
She was the only one in a shabby cape, all hunched up with cold, poor thing!
So wed better give her this.
See the way she gives away my property!
cried Xifeng.
As if Im not spending enough myself without her help.
A fine thing!
Its your fault, madam, for being so dutiful to Her Ladyship and so good to us servants, they retorted, smiling.
If you were the stingy sort that hoards things up with no consideration for those below you, she wouldnt dare do such a thing.
Thats because shes the only one with some inkling of my character, rejoined Xifeng.
She told Xiren, Lets hope your mother is better.
If not, youll just have to stay there but send me word, and Ill have your bedding sent over.
Dont use their bedding or combs.
She turned to Mrs. Zhou.
You all know our rules, of course.
I dont have to remind you.
We know, madam, replied Mrs. Zhou.
When we get there, well ask the others to keep their distance.
If we stay, well insist on a couple of inner rooms.
She went out then with Xiren and ordered the servant-boys to light the lanterns.
Mounting their carriages, they drove to Hua Zifangs house.
Meanwhile Xifeng had summoned two old nannies from Baoyus quarters.
Xiren probably wont be back today, she told them.
You know which of the older girls have most sense.
Get a couple of them to keep watch at night in Baoyus rooms.
You must see to things too.
Dont let Baoyu run wild.
The two nannies assented and left, returning presently to report Weve told Qingwen and Sheyue to attend Master Bao.
The four of us will keep watch at night in turn.
Xifeng nodded.
See that he goes to bed early and gets up early.
They promised to do this and went back to the Garden.
Before long Zhou Ruis wife sent word that Xirens mother was dying, and Xiren could not come back.
Having reported this to Lady Wang, Xifeng sent to the Garden for Xirens bedding and dressing-case.
Baoyu looked on while Qingwen and Sheyue got these ready and sent them off.
This done, the two maids changed their clothes for the night, and Qingwen sat down on the big openwork bronze clothes-warmer over the brazier.
Stop putting on such ladified airs, Sheyue teased.
Do something, cant you!
I will after all the rest of you are gone, retorted Qingwen.
So long as youre here, I mean to take it easy.
Ill make the bed, dear sister, but you must let down the cover over the mirror and hook back the clasp about youre taller than I am.
She then went to make Baoyus bed.
I was just nicely warm and you had to disturb me!
Qingwen gave a mock sigh.
Baoyu had been sitting brooding, wondering whether Xirens mother would recover or not.
Hearing this exchange between the girls, he got up and went out to cover the mirror and hook back the clasp himself.
You can stay in the warm, he said as he came in again.
Ive seen to everything.
I cant toast myself here all the time, replied Qingwen smiling.
That reminds me, Ive not fetched your pewter bed-warmer.
How thoughtful you suddenly are!
remarked Sheyue.
He never uses a bed-warmer.
And we shall be snugger here on the clothes-warmer than on the cold kang in the other room.
Theres no need for a bedwarmer today.
If you both sleep on that clothes-warmer, Ill be all alone out here.
objected Baoyu.
Id be too scared to get a wink of sleep.
I mean to sleep here, declared Qingwen.
You sleep in his room, Sheyue.
By this time it was already the second watch.
Sheyue who had by this time drawn the curtains, removed the lamp and added incense to the burner, now helped Baoyu to bed.
Then the two girls slept too, Qingwen on the clothes-warmer above the brazier, Sheyue outside Baoyus alcove.
After the third watch had sounded, Baoyu called Xiren in his sleep.
He called a couple of times but no one answered, and it dawned on him as he woke that she was away, at which he laughed at himself.
Qingwen, awake too now, called to Sheyue, You really sleep like the dead!
Hes even woken me, over here but you right next to him didnt hear a thing.
Sheyue turned over, yawning.
It was Xiren he called.
Whats that to do with me?
She asked Baoyu what he wanted.
He told her, Some tea.
She got up at once then, wearing nothing over her night clothes but a padded red silk jacket.
Slip on my fur before you go out to the other room, he advised.
You mustnt catch cold.
So she put on the warm sable jacket he used as a dressing-gown, then washed her hands in the basin and took Baoyu a cup of warm water and a large rinse-bowl, so that he could rinse his mouth.
Next she fetched a bowl from the cupboard, warmed it with hot water and half filled it with tea from the warm pot for him to drink.
She then rinsed her own mouth and drank half a bowl of tea too.
Bring me a drop too, dearie!
called Qingwen.
Youre getting above yourself, arent you?
Sheyue retorted.
Good sister, tomorrow night you neednt stir, and Ill dance attendance on you.
How about that?
Then Sheyue gave her water to rinse her mouth and poured her half a bowl of tea.
Dont go to sleep just yet, you two, she said.
You can have a chat while I slip out for a moment.
Beware of the ghost out there waiting for you, teased Qingwen.
The moons bright tonight, said Baoyu, clearing his throat.
Well be talking.
Just run along.
Sheyue opened the back door then and, raising the felt portiere, found that it was indeed a bright moonlit night.
As soon as she had gone, Qingwen felt tempted to give her a scare for fun.
As she was stronger than the other girls and did not feel the cold, she slipped quietly down from the clothes-warmer wearing nothing but a light tunic, and tiptoed after Sheyue without putting on any wraps.
Dont go out like that, warned Baoyu.
Itll be no joke if you catch cold.
Qingwen motioned to him to keep quiet and slipped out of the door.
Once outside the room, however, a breath of wind chilled her to the bone and set her shivering.
No wonder they say you shouldnt expose yourself to the wind when youre warm, she thought.
This cold really cuts like a knife.
Just then, before she had time to frighten Sheyue, Baoyu called loudly from inside, Qingwens gone out!
She turned back and went in again at once.
Did you think I was going to scare her to death?
She giggled.
What a fuss-pot you are a regular old woman!
That wasnt what worried me, Baoyu explained.
For one thing, I didnt want you to catch cold.
For another, if shed been caught by surprise and screamed that might have woken the others and instead of seeing the joke theyd accuse us of getting up to mischief as soon as Xiren was away.
Now, come and tuck in my bedding for me, will you?
Qingwen did so, putting her hands inside his quilt to warm them.
Your hands are icy!
he exclaimed.
I warned you youd catch cold.
He noticed that her cheeks were as red as rouge, and feeling them found them as cold as ice as well.
Hop inside my quilt, quick, and warm up!
he urged.
That same instant the door was flung open.
Sheyue burst breathlessly m. Goodness me!
Ive had such a fright, she cried laughing.
I thought I saw someone crouching in the dark, behind the rocks.
I was just going to scream when I realized it was only that big pheasant it flapped out into the light at the sight of me, and then I saw it clearly.
If Id screamed, it would have woken all the others.
Washing her hands then she remarked, So Qingwens gone out, has she?
How come I didnt see her?
She must have been meaning to scare me.
Here she is, chuckled Baoyu.
Thawing out under my quilt.
If I hadnt called out quickly, shed have given you a fine fright.
She didnt need me for that.
The wretch took fright herself, retorted Qingwen, returning to her own bed.
Surely you didnt slip out like that, in that tight-fitting horse-thiefs out fit?
asked Shenyue.
Oh yes, she did, said Baoyu.
You deserve to catch your death!
exclaimed Sheyue.
What a day to choose!
Why, just standing outside for a minute would chap your skin.
She took the copper guard off the brazier to shovel some ash over the glowing charcoal, then put in two slabs of incense before replacing the guard.
After that stepping behind the screen, she trimmed the lamp and lay down to sleep again.
Qingwen, warm now after being chilled, gave a couple of sneezes.
What did I tell you?
Baoyu sighed.
Now youve caught cold.
She complained of not feeling well this morning, Sheyue told him.
And she hasnt eaten anything all day.
Yet instead of taking proper care of herself she tries to scare me.
If shes ill tomorrow it will serve her right.
Do you have a fever?
asked Baoyu.
Its nothing.
Qingwen coughed.
Im not all that delicate.
Just then the clock on the shelf in the outer room struck two.
The old nanny on night duty outside coughed warningly.
Go to sleep now, young ladies, she said.
Therell be plenty of time for chattering tomorrow.
Wed better stop talking before they start to nag, whispered Baoyu.
And so the three of them settled down to sleep.
The next morning, sure enough, Qingwen woke feeling listless.
Her nose was stopped up and her voice was hoarse.
Lets say nothing about this, suggested Baoyu.
If the mistress heard, shed want you to go home and rest and though you might enjoy being back with your people, it would be colder there.
Better stay here.
Just lie down in the inner room.
Ill have a doctor fetched through the back gate and he can take a look at you on the quiet.
Thats all very well, said Qingwen.
But at least let Madam Zhu know.
Otherwise, how will you explain it when people ask what the doctors doing here?
Baoyu saw sense in this and called in one of the old nannies.
Go and tell Madam Zhu that Qingwen has a slight cold, nothing serious, he said.
But if she goes home to rest Ill have nobody here, as Xirens away just now.
Ask her to send for a doctor and have him come here quietly through the back gate.
Theres no need to tell the mistress.
The nanny returned in due course to announce, Ive told Madam Zhu.
She says if a couple of doese will cure her, all right otherwise she should be sent home.
The weather now is treacherous.
Infecting other people doesnt matter much, but we mustnt let the young ladies in the Garden catch anything.
Qingwen heard this as she lay coughing in the alcove.
She talks as if I had the plague!
she cried crossly.
Whom am I going to infect?
All right, Ill leave this place.
But after this none of you must ever complain, as long as you live, of so much as a headache!
She started getting up.
Dont be angry.
begged Baoyu, making her lie down again.
Shes only doing her job, afraid the mistress may scold if she hears about this.
She doesnt mean it seriously.
You lose your temper far too easily, and of course being ill today makes you extra fractious.
Just then the doctor was announced.
Baoyu hid hurriedly behind a bookcase while a few matrons from the back gate ushered him in.
The young maids had withdrawn, leaving three or four older women to let down the embroidered red curtains in front of the alcove, and Qingwen put her hand out through the curtains.
The doctor hastily averted his eyes at the sight of two nails a good two to three inches long, stained crimson with balsam and at once an old nanny covered the hand with a handkerchief.
After feeling the patients pulse for a while, the doctor rose and withdrew to the outer room.
The young lady is suffering from a cold aggravated by indigestion, he told the nannies.
The weather has been trying recently, and this is a mild attack of influenza.
Luckily she is a young lady who normally eats and drinks with moderation, and the trouble isnt serious but as she is rather delicate she has succumbed to a slight infection.
A couple of doses of medicine will set her right.
He then followed the matrons out again.
Since Li Wan had sent to order the attendants at the back gate and the maids in the various apartments to keep out of sight, the doctor could only feast his eyes on the Garden not a single young woman did he see on his way out.
Upon reaching the back gate, he sat down in the gatehouse used by the pages on duty to make out his prescription.
The old nannies asked him not to leave at once.
Our young master is most particular, one of them explained.
He may want to ask you some questions.
Young master!
exclaimed the doctor.
Wasnt that a young lady I examined just now?
Surely it was a young ladys boudoir.
And the curtains were let down too, so how can it have been a young gentleman?
Why, sir, chuckled the nanny, lowering her voice, I see now why the boy told me theyd invited a new doctor.
You dont know our family.
That was our young masters room, and your patient was one of his maids, one of the more senior ones, true, but no young lady.
You wouldnt have gained admission so easily to one of our young ladies boudoirs.
With that she took the prescription back to the Garden.
Baoyu examined it and found it listed such herbs as perilla, platycodon, siler and nepeta, as well as citrus trifoliata and ephedra.
Confound the fellow!
he swore.
Hes prescribing for her just as he would for a man.
How could she stand such strong medicine?
Even if she had bad indigestion how could she take citrus trifoliata and epbedra?
Who sent for this fellow?
Get rid of him, quick, and fetch some doctor we know.
How were we to know what his prescriptions would be like?
retorted the nanny.
We can easily send for Doctor Wang, but well have to pay for the hire of this other mans sedan-chair, as we didnt send for him through the chief steward.
How much will it be?
It wouldnt look well to give too little, she answered.
A family like ours, in such a case, should pay at least a tael.
How much do we usually pay Doctor Wang?
Doctor Wang and Doctor Zhang, who come so often, arent paid for each separate visit.
Our rule is to give them a lump sum at the chief festivals every year.
Since this new mans only coming this once, we should give him one tael.
Baoyu then ordered Sheyue to fetch some silver.
I dont know where our Mistress Xiren keeps it, she answered laughingly.
I often see her getting money from that small inlaid cabinet, he told her.
Ill help you find it.
They went together into the storeroom and opened the cabinet.
The top compartment was full of brushes and sticks of ink, fans, incense slabs, multi-coloured pouches, sashes and the like.
On the lower shelf lay a few strings of cash.
But upon opening one of the drawers, they discovered a small wicker basket containing some silver ingots, as well as a balance for weighing them with.
Sheyue picked up the balance and one ingot of silver.
Which is the one-tael mark?
she asked Baoyu.
Are you asking me?
he chuckled.
You should know better.
She smiled too and started out to consult someone else.
Just pick one of the biggest pieces, urged Baoyu.
Were not shopkeepers why be so finicking?
Setting down the balance, Sheyue picked up another ingot which she weighed in her hand.
This is probably about one tael, she remarked.
Wed better be on the generous side, so as not to have that poor devil laughing at us.
It would never occur to him that we dont know how to use a balance.
Instead, hed call us misers.
The woman standing on the steps outside the door put in, Thats half a five-tael bar, it must weigh at least two taels.
As youve nothing here to cut it with, youd better put it away, miss, and pick something smaller.
By now, however, Sheyue had closed the cabinet.
I cant be bothered, she laughed.
If its too much, you can pocket the difference yourself.
Just go and fetch Doctor Wang here fast, ordered Baoyu.
The woman took the silver and went to do as she was told.
Before very long Mingyan brought Doctor Wang, who first examined the patient then made a diagnosis very similar to the previous one.
But instead of such ingredients as citrus trifoliata and ephedra, his prescription called for angelica, orange peel and white peony moreover the dosage was smaller.
This is more like medicine for girls, observed Baoyu approvingly.
Although we want to drive out the cold, drastic methods are no good.
Last year when I had a chill and a bilious attack, and Doctor Wang examined me, he said I couldnt take strong drugs like ephedra, gypsum and citrus trifoliata.
When I compare myself with you girls, Im like a big poplar scores of years old in the graveyard, while youre like that white begonia in bud which Jia Yun gave me last autumn how can you take medicines too potent even for me?
Are poplars the only graveyard trees?
Sheyue countered.
What about pines and cedars?
Personally, I cant stand poplars.
They have so few leaves for their size, and they keep up that maddening rustling even when theres not a breath of wind.
How low-class to compare yourself to such a tree!
I wouldnt venture to compare myself with the pine or cedar, chuckled Baoyu.
Even Confucius said, When winter comes, we realize that the pine and cedar are ever green .
You see, theyre so magnificent, only really thick-skinned people would compare themselves with them.
As they were chatting, a serving-woman brought in the drugs.
Baoyu ordered them to fetch the silver medicine-pot and brew the decoction over the brazier.
Why not let the kitchen do it?
asked Qingwen.
You dont want the whole place reeking of medicine, do you?
The smell of medicine is sweeter than any flower or fruit, asserted Baoyu.
What could be finer than these herbs which immortals, as well as hermits and recluses, pick to decoct as medicine?
I was thinking only just now that we lack nothing here except the fragrance of herbs but now it will be perfect.
With that he had the medicine brewed.
He also made Sheyue prepare some things to send by an old nanny to Xiren, with a message begging her not to grieve too much.
After having seen to all this, he went to pay his respects to his grandmother and mother and to have his meal.
Just then Xifeng was saying to the Lady Dowager and Lady Wang, Now that its so cold and the days are shorter, wouldnt it be better for the girls to have their meals with my elder sister-in-law in the Garden?
They can come here to eat again once it is warmer.
Thats a good idea, said Lady Wang.
Especially if theres a high wind or snow.
Exposure to cold after eating isnt good neither is breathing cold air on an empty stomach.
Some maids are always on duty in those five large rooms inside the back gate of the Garden, and we can send two women from our kitchen there to cook for the girls.
They can get their share of fresh vegetables and any money or things they need from the chief stewards office.
And when we have game like pheasant or roebuck, we can send them a share.
The idea did occur to me too, said the Lady Dowager.
But I was afraid it would mean more work, setting up another kitchen.
It wont, Xifeng assured her.
Theyll get their usual share.
More in one place means less in another.
And even if it causes a little more trouble, it will prevent the girls from being exposed to the cold.
The others might stand it all right, but not Daiyu, or even Cousin Bao for that matter.
In fact, none of the girls is really strong.
Quite so, approved the Lady Dowager.
I would have proposed this myself, but saw you were all so busy, even if you didnt complain of the extra work you might well feel that I only care about my younger grandchildren, with no consideration for those of you who run the household.
Im glad you suggested this.
It so happened that Aunt Xue and Aunt Li had called, while Lady Xing and Madam You were still there paying their respects.
Im going to say something today which Ive been keeping back for fear of giving Xifeng a swelled head or causing jealousy, the old lady told them.
All of you have been sister-in-law yourselves, before and after your own marriages.
So tell me have you ever known a sister-in-law as thoughtful as she is?
Aunt Xue, Aunt Li and Madam You agreed.
Shes one in a thousand!
they said.
Other young married women do no more than politeness requires, whereas she has genuine feeling for her husbands younger relatives and is truly dutiful to you as well, madam.
The Lady Dowager nodded.
But fond as I am of her, Im afraid she may be too clever for her own good, she sighed.
Youre wrong there, Old Ancestress, laughed Xifeng.
Its said that the cleverest people dont live long.
Its all right for everyone else to say that and believe it.
But youre the last person who should subscribe to that.
Our Old Ancestress is at least ten times more intelligent that I am, and since youre enjoying both good fortune and long life, I ought to do even better.
I may live to be a thousand, not dying until our Old Ancestress has ascended to the Western Paradise.
What fun would that be, pray?
the Lady Dowager parried.
Everybody else dead and only we two old hags left?
The whole party burst out laughing at this retort.
What followed is related in the next chapter.
Chapter 52 Tactful Pinger Conceals the Theft of Her Gold Bracelet Plucky Qingwen Mends a Peacock-Feather Cape in Bed After the rest had left, Baochai and the other girls dined with the old lady.
The meal at an end, Baoyu went back first to the Garden as he had Qingwen on his mind.
His rooms were filled with the pungent scent of herbs and Qingwen was lying all alone on the kang, her face flushed with fever, her forehead hot to his touch.
After hastily warming his hands over the brazier, he felt her body beneath the quilt and found it burning too.
I dont mind the others going off, he said, but how could Sheyue and Qiuwen have the heart to leave you?
I made Qiuwen go for her meal, and just now Pinger called Sheyue out to have a word with her.
Goodness knows what theyre being so secretive about my staying here although Im ill, I suppose.
Pingers not like that, he assured her.
Besides, shed no idea you were ill. She must have come to talk to Sheyue about something else and, happening to find you in bed, said shed come to ask after you.
Thats only common politeness.
If any trouble comes of your staying here, it has nothing to do with her.
And the two of you normally get on so well, shed never risk spoiling your friendship over something that is no concern of hers.
Youre probably right, agreed Qingwen.
But why are they suddenly hiding something from me?
Ill slip out by the back door and listen outside the window, then let you know what its all about, he told her with a grin.
He did in fact go out to eavesdrop and heard Sheyue ask softly, How did you recover it?
When I missed it that day after washing my hands, my mistress told me not to make a fuss, replied Pinger.
Once out of the Garden, however, she ordered the matrons in all the Garden apartments to investigate carefully.
It was Miss Xiuyans maid whom we suspected.
We thought that, being poor and never having seen such things before, the child might have picked it up.
We never dreamed it would turn out to be one of your girls.
Luckily Madam Lian was out when Mrs. Song brought the bracelet back to me saying shed seen young Zhuier take it, and shed come to report it to Madam Lian.
I was very glad to get my bracelet back.
I couldnt help thinking then how considerate Baoyu is to you girls, and how proud of you as well.
Yet two years ago Lianger stole a piece of jade, which is still making idle tongues wag, and now another of your girls has stolen a gold bracelet from one of his neighbours, too!
Its a shame that Baoyu of all people should be disgraced by his own maids in this way.
So I hurriedly asked Mrs. Song on no account to tell him but just to forget it, and to say nothing to anyone about it.
For if this came to the ears of the old lady and Lady Wang, how angry theyd be!
It would reflect badly on Xiren and the rest of you as well.
So I simply told Madam Lian that the clasp of my bracelet was loose and so Id dropped it in the grass on the way to Madam Zhus place, when the snow was too deep to find it.
Today after the snow had melted and it lay glinting in the sun, I picked it up where Id dropped it.
And she took my word for it.
The reason Im telling you this is so that youll take precautions in future and not send Zhuier out on any errands.
When Xiren comes back, you can talk it over with her and cook up some excuse for dismissing the girl.
Its not as if the little bitch hadnt seen plenty of things of that sort, exclaimed Sheyue.
Why did she have to steal it?
Theres not too much gold in that bracelet, though the pearl on it is a good size, remarked Pinger.
Its one that Madam Lian gave me.
She called it her shrimp-beard bracelet.
I havent told Qingwen because shes as hot-tempered as crackling charcoal.
Shed be bound to flare up and start beating or cursing the girl then the whole story would get out.
Thats why Im just warning you to be on your guard.
This said she took her leave.
Baoyu had overheard this with mixed feelings pleasure at Pingers consideration for him, anger at Zhuiers dishonesty, and regret that such an intelligent girl should do something so underhand.
He went back to Qingwen and told her all that Pinger had said, concluding, She didnt want you to know till you were better, because you take things so much to heart that this news might make your illness worse.
Indeed, Qingwens eyebrows had shot up and her eyes were round with rage.
She wanted to summon Zhuier then and there.
All Pingers consideration for us would be wasted if you make a scene, he warned.
As shes been so thoughtful, lets do as she suggested and get rid of Zhuier later.
Its all very well for you to talk, cried Qingwen.
But I cant stand it Im so angry!
Its not worth flaring up about.
Just concentrate on getting better.
Qingwen took some medicine then and that evening had the second infusion.
She sweated a little that night, but not enough, and awoke the next morning with a fever, headache, a stopped-up nose and sore throat.
Doctor Wang called again and made certain alterations in the prescription but although her temperature went down a little, her head continued to ache.
Bring her some snuff, Baoyu told Sheyue.
Shell feel better after a few good sneezes.
Sheyue accordingly brought him a small flat, golden-starred glass case with gilt double-catches, and Baoyu opened it.
Inside the lid, in western enamel, was a picture of a naked girl with yellow hair and fleshy wings the case contained some genuine Wangqia foreign snuff but instead of taking it, Qingwen just pored over the picture.
Do hurry up and take some, Baoyu urged her.
Its not good to expose snuff to the air too long.
She promptly dipped one finger-nail into the snuff, put it to her nose and inhaled.
As she felt no effect, she tried a larger amount.
At once her nose tingled and the smarting spread right up to her cranium.
She sneezed so violently, five or six times in succession, that her nose and eyes started to run.
My, thats better!
she exclaimed, closing the case.
Fetch me some paper, quick.
One of the younger maids had a stack of fine soft paper ready, and Qingwen took sheet after sheet to blow her nose.
Well, hows that?
asked Baoyu.
Better.
But my temples still ache.
We may as well try some other Western medicine to set that right too.
He told Sheyue, Go and ask the Second Mistress for some of that Western ointment she keeps for headaches.
Yi-fu-na, its called.
Sheyue assented and went off to Xifengs apartments, returning after a while with some of the ointment.
She then fetched a scrap of red satin from which she cut out two round patches, each the size of her finger-tip.
Having heated the ointment, she spread it on with a hairpin.
Qingwen picked up a hand-mirror and stuck the patches on her temples herself.
You were lying there like a tousled ghost, teased Sheyue.
Now with these patches you look rather pretty!
Were so used to the Second Mistress wearing these that we hardly notice them on her.
She turned to Baoyu.
Madam Lian says tomorrow is your Uncle Wangs birthday, and the mistress wants you to go and pay your respects.
What will you wear?
Wed better get your clothes ready tonight, to save trouble tomorrow morning.
Ill wear whatevers handy, Baoyu answered.
I cant keep track of these endless birthdays all the year round.
With that he got up and went out, intending to go and watch Xichun painting.
Just outside his compound, however, he saw Baoqins little maid Xiaoluo passing by not far away.
Overtaking her, he asked where she was going.
Our two young ladies are with Miss Daiyu, she told him.
Im on my way there too.
So he changed his mind and went with her to Bamboo Lodge.
There, sitting round the brazier and chatting with Daiyu, he found not only Baochai and Baoqin but Xiuyan as well, while Zijuan was sewing in the warm alcove by the window.
Here comes another!
they cried at sight of him.
Theres no place left for you.
What a delightful picture!
laughed Baoyu.
Beauties in a Winter Chamber!
Too bad I didnt come a bit earlier.
Still, this is the warmest room there is and I shant be cold on this chair.
He seated himself on Daiyus favourite chair which was covered with a squirrel-fur rug.
And his eye fell on a rectangular marble jardiniere in the alcove in which were arranged some single-petalled narcissi and rocks.
What lovely flowers!
he exclaimed.
The warmer the room, the stronger their scent.
How is it I didnt notice them yesterday?
Daiyu told him, The wife of your chief steward Lai Da sent Baoqin two pots of winter-plum and two of narcissi.
Baoqin gave me one pot of narcissi and Tanchun one of winter-plum.
I only took it to show my appreciation of her kindness.
If you like it, you can have it.
Ive two pots actually in my room, only theyre not as good as this, he replied.
How can you possibly give away a present from cousin Baoqin?
Ive medicine simmering on the stove all day in fact, I practically live on medicine, she countered.
How can I stand the scent of flowers as well?
Its too enervating.
Besides, the pungent aroma of medicine here spoils the fragrance of the flowers.
Youd better take these narcissi to your place where their pure perfume wont get mixed up with other odours.
How do you know?
he demanded laughingly.
Ive a patient taking medicine in my place too now.
Thats a strange way to talk, she retorted.
As if I was hinting at something.
How should I know whats happening in your apartments?
You should have come earlier to listen to our stories, instead of turning up now and raising such a rumpus.
Weve a subject now for the next meeting of our club, declared Baoyu.
We can write on the narcissus and winter-plum.
Not I!
cried Daiyu.
No more versifying for me.
One only gets penalized each time, and thats too shameful.
She covered her face with her hands.
Now then!
laughed Baoyu.
Why make fun of me again?
If even I dont feel ashamed why should you hide your face?
Next time Ill call a meeting, announced Baochai.
Each of you will have to produce four pentasyllabic shi and four ci on different themes.
The first shi of couplets will be on The Diagram of the Supreme Ultimate, and all the words that rhyme with xian will have to be used not one must be left out.
You obviously dont really want to invite us, cousin, or you wouldnt make things so difficult, chuckled Baoqin.
Of course, if one tried, one could manage by filling up the lines with phrases from the Book of Change - but wheres the fun in that?
When I was eight, my father took me to the coast of the western sea to buy foreign goods, and there we saw a girl from the land of Zhenzhen, who had just turned fifteen, with a face like those beauties in Western paintings.
Her long golden hair was plaited, and in it she wore precious stones like coral, amber, cats-eye and emerald.
She had on golden chain-mail and a jacket of foreign brocade, and she carried a Japanese sword inlaid with gold and studded with gems-in fact, she was even lovelier than those beauties in the paintings.
It was said that she was versed in our Chinese classics and could expound the Five Canons and write poems so my father asked, through an interpreter, to see one of her poems written in her own hand.
They all marvelled at this story.
Baoyu pleaded, Good cousin, do let me have a look at that poem!
I left it in Nanjing, said Baoqin.
I cant lay my hands on it at a moments notice.
Baoyu, most disappointed, sighed at not having the luck to see it.
Dont try to fool us!
chuckled Daiyu, tugging at Baoqins sleeve.
I know you wouldnt leave such things behind.
Youd naturally bring them all along.
They may be taken in by your fib, but not I. Baoqin smiled and blushingly lowered her head in silence.
Trust Daiyu to say such a thing, put in Baochai.
You cant outsmart her.
If youve brought it, do let us profit by seeing it, urged Daiyu.
Theyve a whole pile of cases and baskets not yet sorted out, explained Baochai.
Who knows which one its in?
Just wait until everythings properly unpacked, then shell let everyone see it.
She turned to Baoqin.
Dont you know it by heart?
Do recite it.
I remember a pentasyllabic regular verse she wrote, said Paoqin.
It wasnt bad at all for a foreigner.
Wait a bit, interposed Baochai.
Lets get Xiangyun here to hear it too.
She called Xiaoluo and told her, Go to our apartments and tell our maid poetess that we have a foreign beauty here who writes good poems.
And tell her to bring the other poetry maniac to see her too.
Xiaoluo went off on this errand with a smile.
After a while they heard Xiangyun demanding merrily, Where is this foreign beauty?
And in she came with Xiangling.
They teased, Before you see her, you hear her voice.
Baoqin and the others hurriedly offered them seats and told them what had been said.
Hurry up and let us hear the poem, begged Xiangyun.
Then Baoqin recited -748 Last night I dreamed in a vermilion mansion, Today my songs rise by the sea Clouds from the islands make a haze over the ocean, Mist from the hills links the forests green ery To the moon, past and present are one Mens passions, inconstant, are no counterpart.
As spring pervades south China.
How can I but take this to heart?
Not bad at all!
was the verdict.
Better, in fact, than some Chinese could write.
As they were speaking Sheyue came in to announce, The mistress has sent to tell Master Bao to call on his uncle first thing tomorrow morning.
She wants him to explain that shes not well enough to go herself.
Baoyu, who had risen to accept these instructions, asked Baochai and Baoqin if they would be going too.
No, said Baochai.
We just sent presents yesterday.
After a little further chat they dispersed.
Baoyu had told his cousins to go on ahead, leaving him to follow, but now Daiyu asked him When will Xiren be back?
Not until after the funeral, of course, he answered.
Daiyu had more to say but hesitated, lost in thought for a while.
Well, go along now, she said finally.
Baoyu, too, had much in his heart to say but did not know how to put it into words.
After a thoughtful pause he rejoined, We can talk again tomorrow.
He walked down the steps with lowered head, turning back suddenly to ask, Are you coughing much, now that the nights are longer?
How often do you wake?
I had a good night yesterday, with only two fits of coughing.
But I only managed to sleep through the fourth watch after that I couldnt get back to sleep again.
Ive just remembered something important.
Drawing closer to her he whispered, I think that birds-nest Baochai gave you....
He was cut short by the arrival of concubine Zhao, come to ask after Daiyus health.
Daiyu knew that she had only called out of politeness on her way back from Tanchuns apartments.
She made her sit down and remarked, It was considerate of you to come out on such a cold day.
She ordered tea, glancing at Baoyu as she did so.
Taking the hint, he left to join his mother for dinner, and was there reminded to make an early start the next day.
Upon his return to Happy Red Court he saw to it that Qingwen took her medicine and slept in the warmth inside the alcove, while he remained outside.
The brazier was moved closer to the alcove, and Sheyue slept on the clothes-warmer.
They passed a quiet night.
The next morning Qingwen woke Sheyue before it was light.
Get up!
she called.
You never seem to have had enough sleep!
Go and get them to make some tea while I wake him up.
Sheyue scrambled into her clothes.
Lets get him up and dressed first, and move away this clothes-warmer before we call the others, she proposed.
The nurses said he wasnt to sleep in this room for fear of infection.
If we let them see us all crowded together in here, theyll start nagging again.
Just what I think, agreed Qingwen.
Baoyu woke up himself as they were about to rouse him.
He got up and dressed without delay while Sheyue called in some young maids to tidy the room.
Only when this was done were Qiuwen and Tanyun summoned to wait on Baoyu.
As he finished his toilet Sheyue said, Its cloudy again and looks like snow, youd better wear something woollen.
He nodded and changed his clothes, then sipped a little of the lotus-seed and date broth a young maid offered him on a small tray, and took a piece of crystallized ginger from the plate Sheyue brought him.
Finally, having urged Qingwen to look after herself, he went to the Lady Dowagers apartments.
His grandmother was still abed, but hearing that Baoyu was going out she had him admitted to her bedroom, where he saw Baoqin lying asleep behind her, her face to the wall.
The Lady Dowager noticed that Baoyu was wearing, over his brown velvet archers coat lined with fox fur, a scarlet felt jacket embroidered with gold thread.
Its slate- blue satin border was fringed with tassels.
Is it snowing?
she asked him.
Not yet, but it looks as if it will, he replied.
Bring him that peacock-feather cape taken out yesterday, the old lady ordered Yuanyang.
The maid promptly brought in a cape which shimmered gold, green and blue and was no less magnificent, in a different style, than Baoqins cape of wild-duck down.
This is called golden peacock felt, his grandmother told him with a smile.
It was woven of peacock feathers in Russia.
The other day I gave your cousin one of wild-duck down, so now Im making you a present of this.
Baoyu kowtowed his thanks and put on the cape.
Mind you show it to your mother before you go out, the Lady Dowager charged him with a smile.
He agreed to this and, going out, saw Yuanyang standing in the passage rubbing her eyes.
Since the day on which she had vowed never to marry, she had upset him by ignoring him.
At sight of him now she started to slip away, but he stepped forward to greet her.
Look, dear sister!
How does this suit me?
She flung away from him into the old ladys room.
Baoyu had to go on then to show the cape to his mother, after which he returned to the Garden and displayed it to Qingwen and Sheyue.
He went back then to the Lady Dowager.
Mothers seen it and thinks it a pity to wear it, he said.
She told me to be extra careful not to spoil it.
Its the only one left, replied his grandmother.
If you spoil it, you wont get another.
Impossible to replace it.
She warned him not to drink too much and to come back early, which he promised to do.
Some old nurses followed him to the main hall where six stewards Nanny Lis son Li Gui, Wang Rong, Zhang Ruojin, Zhao Yihua, Qian Qi and Zhou Rui were waiting for him.
With them were his four pages Mingyan, Banhe, Chuyao and Saohong, who were carrying a change of clothes for him and a cushion.
A splendidly caparisoned white horse with an embossed saddle stood there in readiness too.
When the stewards had received the old nurses instructions, acting as grooms they helped Baoyu to mount slowly into the saddle.
Then Li Gui and Wang Rong took the bridle, Qian Qi and Zhou Rui led the way, and Zhang Ruojin and Zhao Yihua followed close behind, one on each side of Baoyu.
Lets leave by the side gate, brothers, called Baoyu to Zhou Rui and Qian Qi.
Then I wont have to dismount by my fathers study.
Theres no need for that, replied Zhou Rui, turning his head with a smile.
His Lordship is away and the place is locked.
Even so, I still ought to get down, insisted Baoyu.
Quite right, sir, chuckled Qian Qi and Li Gui.
If you were too lazy to dismount and we happened to run into Mr. Lai or Mr. Lin, even if they didnt lecture you theyd have something to say about it.
And all the blame would be laid on us for not teaching you better manners.
So Zhou Rui and Qian Qi led the horse to the side gate.
And, sure enough, as they were talking they ran into Lai Da.
Baoyu promptly pulled up to dismount, but the chief steward hurried forward and clasped his knee.
Baoyu stood up in his stirrups and, taking him by the hand, exchanged greetings with him.
Then a page came in at the head of a couple of dozen men with brooms and dustpans.
These lined up respectfully by the wall at the sight of their young master, while the page knelt on one knee and paid his respects.
Baoyu, not knowing his name, simply smiled and nodded.
Not until he had ridden past did the men move on.
Then Baoyu and his party passed through the side gate, where some grooms and the boys under the six stewards had some dozen horses ready.
Once outside the gate, Li Gui and the rest mounted these horses.
Then the whole troop, escorting Baoyu on all sides, galloped off.
But let us return to Qingwen, who was worried because the medicine had done her no good and now started abusing the doctor.
Hes nothing but a swindler and quack, she complained.
His medicines no use at all.
You must have patience, urged Sheyue.
Havent you heard the saying Illness comes as fast as a wall falling down, but goes as slowly as unravelling a cocoon?
Hes no Lao Jun 2 with a magic elixir to cure you overnight.
Just rest quietly for a few days and youll be all right.
The more impatient you are, the worse for you.
Qingwen switched then to lashing out at the younger girls.
Where have they all buried themselves?
she scolded.
They take advantage of my illness to make off, bold as brass!
Im going to flay each one of them for this when Im better.
This so frightened Zhuier, one of the younger maids, that she hurried in to ask, Is there anything you want, miss?
Are the others all dead?
demanded Qingwen.
Are you the only one left?
At this, Zhuier sidled in.
Look at that little bitch!
cried Qingwen.
She wont come unless asked for.
But on pay-day or when sweets are shared out, shes always the first to come running.
Come over here!
Am I a tiger?
Are you afraid Ill eat you?
Zhuier had to come closer.
Then Qingwen, lunging forward, grabbed one of her hands and began jabbing it with a hairpin from under her pillow.
What use is this claw?
she swore.
It wont hold a needle or thread, all its good for is stealing.
You with your avid eyes and itching palms, youre the bane of our lives and a disgrace to us all Ill carve you up!
Zhuier screamed with pain until Sheyue pulled her away and made Qingwen lie down again.
Youll catch your death after that sweat you were in, she scolded.
Once youre better you can beat her as much as you like.
Why raise this rumpus now?
But Qingwen ordered someone to fetch Nanny Song and when she arrived informed her, Master Bao has told me to tell you that Zhuiers too lazy.
When he gives her a job to do she refuses to stir and when Xiren asks her to do anything, she even curses her behind her back.
She must be sent packing today, and tomorrow hell report it himself to the mistress.
Nanny Song knew at once that this was because of the bracelet.
Even so, she said with a smile, wed better wait till Miss Xiren comes back before dismissing her.
Master Bao was most emphatic, insisted Qingwen.
Never mind about this Miss or that Miss, well answer to her.
Just do as I say.
Tell her family to come and take her away.
You may as well, put in Sheyue.
Shell have to go sooner or later.
The sooner she goes, the sooner well have some peace.
So Nanny Song had to fetch Zhuiers mother.
And when they had packed up her things, the woman came in to see Qingwen and Sheyue.
Whats this I hear?
she protested.
If my girl misbehaves, why cant you teach her a lesson instead of throwing her out?
At least leave us a little face.
Save that talk for Baoyu, snapped Qingwen.
This has nothing to do with us.
Ask him?
The woman snorted.
He does just what you young ladies tell him, doesnt he?
Even if he were willing to keep her, you wouldnt let him.
Why, just now, even though you were talking behind his back, you referred to him by name.
That may be all right for the likes of you, but in our case it would be thought most ill-bred.
So I called him by his name, did I?
Qingwen flushed with anger.
All right, go and report me to the old lady.
Tell her Ive run wild and have me thrown out too.
Just take your daughter and go, sister, put in Sheyue.
You can have your say about it some other time.
This is no place for you to bicker and wrangle.
Have you ever seen anyone wrangling with us here?
Even Mrs. Lai and Mrs. Lin have to treat us with some respect, not to say you.
As for using his name, weve done that since he was a child, as well you know, on the old ladys orders.
Didnt they have his name written out and posted up everywhere so that everybody would use it, for fear that otherwise he might die young?
Why, even water-carriers, night-soil collectors and beggars use it, not to say us.
Only the other day, Mrs. Lin was taken to task by the old lady for calling him young master.
Thats the first point.
The second is that since were always in and out reporting things to the old lady and the mistress, we obviously cant refer to him as master.
We must use the name Baoyu a couple of hundred times a day so its strange that you should choose this to pick fault.
Some day when you have time, you can listen to us using his name to the old lady and Lady Wang then youll understand.
But of course, its not to be wondered at that you dont know the rules in the inner apartments, since you dont have any important business that would take you near the ladies of the house youre mucking about outside the gate all the time.
And this is no place for you to hang about.
If you do, people will be coming to ask you the reason, even if we dont say anything ourselves.
So first take your girl away.
If youre not satisfied, you can complain to Mrs. Lin and ask her to speak to Master Bao about it.
There are nearly a thousand people in this household.
If you come one day and others the next, how are we to recognize whos who?
We cant have everyone running in and out here.
She ordered one of the young maids to fetch a cloth and wipe the floor.
Zhuiers mother was silenced then and dared stay no longer.
Swallowing her anger, she started out with her daughter.
You really have no manners, expostulated Nanny Song.
After working here all this time, your daughter should surely kowtow to the young ladies before she leaves.
Presents they dont expect, but she should at least kowtow to express her thanks.
How can you just walk off?
At this, Zhuier had to come in again and kowtow to Sheyue and Qingwen, then to Qiuwen and the others.
They all ignored her.
Her mother, thoroughly discomfited and too cowed to say another word, went off in high indignation.
Qingwen had caught another slight chill, and this no top of her anger made her feel even more poorly.
She tossed about restlessly and did not quiet down until lighting-up time when Baoyu came back, sighing and stamping his feet.
Sheyue asked him what was the matter.
Today the old lady was in a good mood and gave me this cape, he explained.
But somehow I carelessly burned a hole in the back.
Luckily it was too dark just now for my grandmother or mother to notice it.
He took the cape off and Sheyue inspected the damage.
There was a hole the size of a finger-tip.
This must have been done by a spark from a hand-stove, She commented.
Its nothing.
Well smuggle it out at once for some skilled weaver to patch.
She wrapped up the cape and told an old serving-woman to take it out.
See that its done by tomorrow morning, She ordered.
And be sure not to let the old lady or mistress know.
The woman assented and went off, returning some time later with the cape.
I tried not only weavers and the best tailors but embroiders and sewing-women too, she said.
But as theyd never seen anything like this before, none of them dared take on the job.
Whats to be done then?
wondered Sheyue.
I suppose you neednt wear it tomorrow.
Tomorrow is the birthday proper, objected Baoyu.
The old lady and my mother expressly told me to wear it when I go.
But the day before I burn it.
What a bad show!
Qingwen, who had been following the conversation, could no longer keep silence and now sat up in bed.
Let me see it, she called.
Maybe its not in your stars to wear this cape.
Look at the state youre in.
Youre right, said Baoyu, smiling.
He handed the cape to Qingwen and took her the lamp.
This is made of peacock feathers and gold thread, she observed after examining it carefully.
If we darn it with the same material it should pass.
Weve peacock feathers and thread, said Sheyue.
But youre the only one here who can do that type of darning.
Theres no help for it then but to try my best, I suppose.
How can you?
Baoyu demurred.
You mustnt start working the moment youre a bit better.
Dont fuss, she retorted.
I know what I can do.
With that she sat up to knot up her hair and put on some clothes.
At once she felt so dizzy that stars began dancing before her eyes and she was afraid she would collapse but rather than worry Baoyu by giving up, she gritted her teeth and stuck it out.
Having asked Sheyue to help by twisting the thread, she now took one and compared it with the cape.
Its not quite the same, she remarked.
once its mended, though, the difference shouldnt show.
Thats splendid, said Baoyu.
Where would we find a Russian tailor?
Qingwen first unpicked the lining and slipped a bamboo embroidery-frame the size of a teacup up the back of the cape.
Next she scraped away the singed edges with a knife, sewed two threads across at right angles to each other, stitched in the outline in cross-stitch, and then darned the hole to reproduce the original pattern.
After a couple of stitches she would stop to examine her work, and after every four or five, feeling dizzy, breathless and faint, she would sink back on her pillow to rest for a while.
Baoyu hovered over her solicitously, offering her hot water, urging her to rest, putting a squirrel cape over her shoulders and sending for a pillow for her back, until she became quite frantic.
Do go to bed, little ancestor!
she begged him.
If you stay up half the night again, youll have sunken eyes tomorrow, and that wouldnt do!
To soothe her he had to lie down, but he could not sleep.
He heard the clock strike four just as she finished her task and was fluffing up the down with a small toothbrush.
Thats fine!
exclaimed Sheyue.
If you dont look closely youd never notice it.
Baoyu asked to see it too.
Its really as good as new, he commented.
Coughing after her exertions, Qingwen said, Im afraid the mend still shows.
But I cant do any more.
She sank back with a groan of exhaustion.
If you want to know the outcome, read the next chapter.
Chapter 53 Ancestral Sacrifice Is Carried Out on New Year s Eve in the Ning Mansion An Evening Banquet Is Held on the Feast of Lanterns in the Rong Mansion Seeing that mending his peacock-feather cape had left Qingwen exhausted, Baoyu called a young maid to massage her and barely had they rested for the time it takes for one meal before the day was light.
Then Baoyu, instead of going out, ordered the doctor to be sent for at once.
Presently Doctor Wang arrived and felt his patients pulse.
She was on the mend yesterday what has caused this relapse today?
he asked in surprise.
Has she been over-eating or tiring herself?
Her influenza is better but after sweating she hasnt had a proper rest.
The consequences may be serious.
He withdrew to make out a prescription, then brought it in, and Baoyu saw that it called for fewer drugs to counteract noxious eontagions but more tonics such as pachyma cocos, rebmannia and angelica.
Baoyu ordered this medicine to be prepared at once.
Whats to be done?
he sighed.
If anything happens to her, it will all be my fault.
Run along and mind your own business, young master, scoffed Qingwen from her pillow.
Is it so easy to fall into a decline?
Baoyu had to leave her then.
But he returned during the afternoon on the pretext of not feeling well.
Although Qingwens illness was by no means light, luckily, though hard-working she was not the worrying type, and instead of over-eating she normally kept to a simple diet.
The Jia familys cure for a cold or cough, among masters and servants alike, consisted mainly of fasting supplemented by medication.
Thus as soon as Qingwen fell ill she had fasted for a couple of days and been careful to take her medicine, with the result that in spite of her exertions a few days of extra treatment set her right.
And because all the girls in the Garden were eating at home now, catering for a patient was simple as Baoyu could easily ask for soup and gruel.
But enough of this.
Upon Xirens return after her mothers funeral, Sheyue told her in detail of Pingers visit, the part played by Nanny Song, the reason for Zhuiers dismissal by Qingwen and the fact that this had been reported to Baoyu.
Xirens only comment was, You were rather too hasty.
These days Li Wan also had a cold on account of the bad weather Yingchun and Xiuyan were fully occupied attending to Lady Xing, who was suffering from an inflammation of the eyes Aunt Li and her two daughters had been invited by her younger brother to his home for a few days and Baoyu was worried by Xirens depression after her mothers death, as well as by Qingwens delayed recovery.
So no one was in the mood for poetry gatherings, and several of the appointed dates passed unobserved.
It was now the twelfth month.
As New Year was fast approaching, Lady Wang and Xifeng had their hands full with preparations.
Wang Ziteng was promoted at this time to be Chief Inspector of Nine Provinces, and ha Yucun to the post of Minister of War, to assist with military strategy and advise on state policy.
But no more of this.
Over in the Ning Mansion ha Zhen had the Ancestral Temple opened and swept, the sacrificial vessels prepared, the ancestral tablets put in place, and the north hall cleaned in readiness for displaying the ancestral portraits.
High and low alike in both mansions were kept hard at work.
One morning in the Ning Mansion, Madam You and her daughter-in-law were preparing embroidery and other gifts for those in the other mansion when a maid came in with a trayful of gold New-Year ingots.
Xinger reports that that packet of loose gold of a mixed quality the other day amounted to a hundred and fifty-three taels and sixty-seven cents, madam, she announced.
Its made two hundred and twenty ingots in all.
She presented them for inspection and her mistress saw that they were of different shapes plum-blossom, crab-apple-blossom, a writing-brush and an ellipsoid signifying All Wishes Granted, and The Eight Treasures of Spring.
Having ordered these to be put away, Madam You sent to tell Xinger to hand in the silver ingots without delay.
The maid had not been gone long on this errand when Jia Zhen came in for his meal, and his daughter-in-law slipped away.
Jia Zhen asked his wife, Have we fetched the Imperial Bounty yet for the spring sacrifice?
I sent Rong for it today, was her reply.
Of course, our family doesnt depend on these few taels, observed her husband.
Still they are a mark of the Imperial favour.
We should collect this silver early to show the old lady in the other mansion before using it to prepare the ancestral sacrifice for this is evidence that we are honoured by the Emperors favour and benefit from the good fortune of our forbears.
Even if we spent ten thousand taels on this sacrifice, it would convey less distinction than the use of this bounty so graciously conferred.
Indeed, apart from one or two houses like ours, most poor families of hereditary officials have to rely on this silver for their New-Year sacrifice.
Such consideration is truly a sign of the infinite graciousness of the Emperor.
Exactly what I feel, agreed his wife.
Just then a servant announced their sons return, and Jia Zhen ordered him to be admitted.
Jia Rong came in, carrying in both hands a small yellow bag.
Why have you been so long?
demanded his father.
Jia Rong answered with a smile, I had to go to the Office of Imperial Banquets for the bounty, as it isnt issued by the Ministry of Rites nowadays.
All in that office asked after you, sir, and said they hadnt seen you for a long time but were constantly thinking of you.
Its not me theyre thinking of, laughed his father.
Now that New Years coming, its presents they want from me or an invitation to a banquet and opera.
While speaking he examined the yellow bag, which was stamped with the four-word inscription Eternal Imperial Favour Granted and the seal of the Sacrificial Department of the Ministry of Rites.
In smaller characters was written Two gratuities for the Spring Sacrifice are conferred by the Emperor in perpetuity upon Jia Yan, Duke of Ningguo, and Jia Yuan, Duke of Rongguo.
The amount and date were specified, together with the name of the recipient Jia Rong, Captain of the Imperial Guard Reserve, while the officer in charge had signed his name in vermilion.
After his meal, ha Zhen washed and rinsed his mouth, then put on his boots and hat to go, accompanied by his son with the silver, to inform the Lady Dowager and Lady Wang and after them Jia She and Lady Xing that the bounty had been collected.
This done, he returned home and took out the silver, ordering the bag to be burned in the large incense-burner in the Ancestral Temple.
After this he told his son, Go and ask your Second Aunt whether theyve fixed on dates or not for their New-Year feasts in the first month.
If they have, get the secretaries to write out a detailed list so that our invitations dont clash.
Last year we were careless enough to invite several families on the same day, and instead of attributing it to negligence they imagined wed done it deliberately to make an empty gesture at no trouble to ourselves.
Jia Rong went off to do as he was told, returning some time later with the list of dates for the feasts and the names of those invited.
After running his eye over it Jia Zhen said Give it to Lai Sheng.
Tell them to avoid asking the same people on those days.
He proceeded then to the hall and was watching the pages shift screens, clean tables and polish the gold and silver sacrificial vessels, when a boy brought him a card and list.
Bailiff Wu of the manor in Black Mountain Village has arrived, sir, he reported.
The old scoundrel, coming so late!
swore Jia Zhen.
Jia Rong took the card and list and held them out while Jia Zhen, his hands behind his back, read them.
On the red card was written Your servant, Bailiff Wu Jinxiao, kowtows to wish the master and mistress boundless happiness and good health, and good health to the young master and young mistress too.
May the New Year bring you great happiness and good fortune, wealth, nobility and peace.
May you be promoted with increased emoluments and have all your wishes come true.
Jia Zhen chuckled.
They have some sense, these country folk, eh?
Yes, its not the style, said his son, but the good wishes that count.
Next they read the list, which was as follows -748 thirty stags fifty deer fifty roebuck twenty each of three breeds of hogs and pigs twenty boars twenty wild goats twenty each of three breeds of goats and sheep two sturgeon two hundred catties of other fish two hundred each of live chicken, ducks and geese two hundred each of salted chicken, ducks and geese two hundred brace of pheasants two hundred brace of rabbits twenty pairs of bears-paws twenty catties of deer-sinews fifty catties of sea-slugs fifty deer-tongues fifty ox-tongues twenty catties of dried oysters two bags each of hazel-nuts, pine-kernels, peach and apricot-kernels fifty pairs of giant lobsters two hundred catties of dried prawns one thousand catties of first-grade silver-frost charcoal two thousand catties of second-grade silver-frost charcoal thirty thousand catties of ordinary charcoal two piculs of rose-rice from the Imperial Farm five hundred pecks each of three varieties of fine rice five hundred pecks each of other kinds of grain one thousand piculs of ordinary rice one cartload of sun-dried vegetables two thousand five hundred taels raised by the sale of grain and cattle.
In addition, some trifles to amuse the young gentlemen and young ladies two brace of live deer four brace of white rabbits four brace of black rabbits two brace of live pheasants two brace of foreign ducks.
Having read this list Jia Zhen ordered, Bring him in.
Soon Wu Jinxiao entered the courtyard, kowtowed and offered greetings.
Jia Zhen told the servants to help him up.
So youre still hale and hearty, he remarked.
Thanks to Your Lordships good fortune, I can still get about, was the reply.
Your sons have grown up.
You should have sent them instead.
Im used to the trip, Your Lordship, and thats a fact.
Besides, I was sick and tired of staying at home.
Of course they all wanted to come, to see what its like living at the feet of the Son of Heaven but theyre still young and I was afraid they might get into trouble on the way.
A few years from now I shant worry.
How long did you spend on the road?
Theres been heavy snow this year, Your Lordship.
The snows lying four or five feet deep in the country and a sudden thaw recently made the going so difficult that I was held up for several days.
The whole journey took me one month and two days, not that I didnt make the best speed I could, knowing time was running short and Your Lordship might be worried.
I was wondering why you were so late, replied Jia Zhen.
Ive just looked at your list, you old scoundrel.
So this year youre trying to defraud us again.
Wu hastily took two steps forward.
May it please Your Lordship, we had a wretched harvest this year, he declared.
It rained steadily from the third month to the eighth without letting up for five days at a stretch.
In the ninth month, hailstones as large as bowls fell for one thousand three hundred ii around, injuring thousands of men and countless houses, to say nothing of cattle and grain.
Thats why this is all there is.
I wouldnt dare lie to Your Lordship.
Frowning, bia Zhen answered, I counted on your bringing at least five thousand taels.
What use is this paltry sum?
In all, weve only eight or nine manors left now, already two of them claim to have suffered from flood or drought.
How are we to get through this New Year Id like to know?
And now you default like this.
Your Lordships farms havent done so badly, said Wu.
My brother just a hundred ii away is much worse off.
Those eight farms which he manages for the other mansion are several times bigger than yours, sir yet hes produced no more than I have this year, apart from just two or three thousand taels extra.
Theyre hard hit too.
No doubt, replied Jia Zhen.
We can just about manage here, with no extra large outlay beyond the normal annual expenditure.
If I want to enjoy myself, I spend more but I can economize if necessary.
As for New-Year gifts and entertaining, by not caring about appearances and cutting down I shall get by.
Its different for the other house.
In recent years theyve had so many unavoidable extra expenses, without acquiring any additional income or property, that in the last year or two theyve made great inroads into their capital.
And whom can they ask for money if not you?
Wu Jinxiao smiled.
Their expenditure may have increased, but surely it works both ways.
Dont they get presents from Her Imperial Highness and His Majesty?
Jia Zhen turned to his son and the rest.
Did you hear that?
he asked laughingly.
What a joke!
Jia Rong made haste to explain to Wu, You people from the back of beyond dont understand.
Can Her Highness make over the Imperial Treasury to us?
Even if she wanted to, its not in her power.
Of course she sends gifts at the different festivals, but theyre simply brocade, curios and other trifles.
As for money gifts, those only amount to a hundred or so gold taels a year-worth little more than a thousand taels of silver.
What use is that?
The last couple of years, theyve had to spend several thousand taels extra each year.
Just reckon for yourself how much it cost to build the Garden the first year for the Imperial Visit.
A second visit in another couple of years would bankrupt them!
These simple country folk dont realize that not all is gold that glitters, chuckled Jia Zhen.
Wormwood carved into a drumstick may look imposing, but its bitter inside!
The other house does seem to be in difficulties, sir, remarked his son.
The other day I heard Second Aunt asking Yuanyang in confidence to smuggle out some of the old ladys things to pawn.
Thats just your Aunt Xifengs trick.
Jia Zhen laughed.
Theyre not as poor as all that.
You may be sure she does it to make a show of poverty, because she knows theyre spending too much and making inroads into their capital, and she wants to cut down on expenditure.
Ive my own means of reckoning, though.
Theyre not as badly off as they make out.
With that he told the servants to take Wu Jinxiao away and entertain him well.
Jia Zhen now disposed of this rent in kind as follows part was kept for the ancestral sacrifice part delivered by Jia Rong to the other mansion part kept for family use and the rest divided into different shares and placed on the terrace of the main hail, where the younger men of the clan were summoned to collect them.
At this juncture the Rong Mansion sent over a variety of sacrificial offerings and gifts for Jia Zhen.
When he had inspected these and supervised the arrangement of the sacrificial vessels, he changed into his slippers, draped a big raccoon cloak over his shoulders, and made the servants spread a large wolfskin rug at the top of the steps by the pillars so that he could sit in the sun watching his junior clansmen collect their gifts.
When he saw Jia Qin come to take a portion too, he called him over.
What are you doing here?
he asked.
Who told you to come?
Standing at attention Jia Qin replied, I heard you had sent for us to take things, sir.
So I came without waiting to be called.
These things are for your uncles and cousins who have no jobs and no income, Jia Zhen told him.
Those two years when you had no job, I gave you a share.
But now youre in charge of the monks and Taoist priests in the family temple.
Apart from the stipend you receive each month, the allowance for all the monks and priests passes through your hands as well yet you still show up to take this.
Youre too miserly.
Just look at yourself.
Are you dressed like a gentleman of means with a responsible post?
You used to complain because you had no income but now that you have one, you look even shabbier than before.
I have such a large household, my expenses are heavy.
Dont hand me that line!
Jia Zhen laughed scornfully.
Do you think I dont know what goes on in the family temple?
Out there, of course, youre the master and no one dares disobey you.
With money in your hands and us at a safe distance you lord it over everyone, night after night assembling a pack of scoundrels-gamblers, debauchees or queers.
And now that your moneys squandered you have the effrontery to come here for things.
Well, you wont get anything except a good beating.
After New Year I shall tell your Second Uncle Lian to dismiss you.
Jia Qin flushed scarlet and dared not reply.
Just then a servant announced that the Prince of Beijing had sent a gift of scrolls and pouches.
Jia Zhen ordered his son to entertain the messenger and explain that he was out, and Jia Rong, assenting, went off.
Jia Zhen watched till the distribution of goods was finished, then returned to his rooms to dine with his wife, and the night passed without further incident.
The next day there was even more to do, but we need not go into the details.
By the twenty-ninth of the twelfth month all was ready.
Both mansions were resplendent with new door-gods, couplets, tablets and New-Year charms.
The Ning Mansions main gate was thrown open, as were the ceremonial gate, the doors of the great hall, the lobby and the inner hall, the three inner gates, the inner central gate and the inner secondary gate-all the gates leading to the main hall.
And on both sides below the steps, tall vermilion candles blazed like golden dragons.
The next day all the titled members of the family from the Lady Dowager downwards put on the court costume appropriate to their rank and, led by the old lady in a large sedan-chair carried by eight bearers, went to the Imperial Palace to pay homage and attend a banquet.
On their return, they alighted from their chairs by the lobby of the Ning Mansion.
All their younger kinsmen who had not gone to court had lined up to wait in front of the main gate, and now ushered them into the Ancestral Temple.
Now as this was Xue Baoqins first visit here, she took pains to observe the whole place carefully.
The temple, a five-frame structure enclosed by a black palisade, stood in a separate courtyard to the west of the Ning Mansion.
In large characters on the placard over the gate was the imposing four-characters inscription Jia Family Ancestral Temple.
In small characters beside this she read Written by Kong Jizong, Hereditary Duke Descended from Confucius.
The couplet flanking this read -1142 The grateful recipients of Imperial Favour will gladly dash their brains out on the ground Generations to come will make solemn sacrifice for deeds whose fame resounds to Heaven.
This too had been written by the duke descended from Confucius.
Entering this courtyard, the party proceeded along a way paved with white marble and bordered by green pines and cypresses to a terrace on which were displayed ancient bronze tripods and libation cups green with patina.
Before the porch hung a placard gilded with the nine-dragon design, and the inscription Stars Shine on the Assistant, which had been written by the late Emperor himself.
The couplet on either side, also in the Imperial calligraphy, read -748 Their achievements outshine the sun and moon, -1142 Their fame will extend to all their posterity.
The tablet over the entrance to the main hail was engraved with frolicking dragons, and bore the intagliated motto in blue Venerate the Departed, Continue Their Sacrifices.
The couplet flanking this, also written by the Emperor, read -748 Their descendants succeed to their good fortune and virtue Ning and Rong live in the memory of the black-haired people.
The hall itself, ablaze with candles and lamps, was so brilliant with silk hangings and embroidered curtains that the ancestral tablets, ranged in their places, were hard to make out distinctly.
The members of the Jia family disposed themselves now according to the generations to which they belonged, on the left and right-hand sides.
Jia Qing the Master of Sacrifice was assisted by Jia She, with Jia Zhen as libationer, Jia Lian and Jia Cong to present silk, Baoyu to offer incense, and Jia Chang and Jia Ling to spread a rug for kneeling and tend the incinerator.
Black-robed musicians played music while the libation-cup was presented three times and obeisance made.
Then the silk was burnt and wine poured.
At the end of this ceremony the music stopped and all withdrew, following the Lady Dowager to the main hall, in front of the portraits.
In the middle of the shrine hung with long silk curtains, surrounded by brilliant screens and blazing censers, were portraits of the Duke of Rongguo and the Duke of Ningguo in dragon robes with jade belts.
On both sides were portraits of other ancestors.
Jia Xing, Jia Zhi and some others had ranged themselves in due order all the way from the inner ceremonial gate to the terrace by the verandah of the main hall, where stood Jia Jing and Jia She outside the palisade, while the ladies stood inside.
The family servants and pages remained outside the ceremonial gate.
Each time they brought a plate of offerings to this gate, it was taken by Jia Xing or bia Zhi and passed from hand to hand until it reached Jia Jing on the terrace.
Jia Rong, as the eldest grandson of the senior branch, was the only one to accompany the ladies inside.
When Jia bing passed him an offering he handed it to his wife, who passed it on to Xifeng and Madam You until it reached Lady Wang in front of the altar.
She in turn passed it to the Lady Dowager, who set it on the altar.
Lady Xing, posted west of the altar facing east, helped the Lady Dowager.
When all the dishes, rice, soup, cakes, wine and tea had been presented, Jia Rong withdrew to join Jia Jings group below the steps.
Places were assigned according to generations, Jia Jing heading the senior group, Jia Zhen the second, and Jia Rong the third and now they ranged themselves on the two sides, the men on the east and the women on the west.
When the Lady Dowager offered incense and bowed, the whole clan knelt down together.
Every square foot of the five sections of the hall, the three annexes, the inner and outer corridors, terrace and courtyard, was a mass of rich silks and brocades.
And the only sounds to break the solemn silence were the tinkling of gold bells and jade pendants, the rustling of silks and the shuffling of boots and slippers as the worshippers rose or knelt down.
After this ceremony, ha Jing, bia She and the other men hurried to the Rong Mansion, where they waited to pay their respects to the Lady Dowager.
She, however, now went to Madam Yous sitting-room, the floor of which was covered with a red carpet where stood a large gilded cloisonne brazier, its three legs in the form of elephant trunks.
On the kang by the north wall were a new crimson rug and red silk back-rests and bolsters embroidered with Dragons in the Clouds designs and the character Longevity.
On it, too, were spread a black fox-skin and a big white fox-skin mattress.
When the Lady Dowager had been ensconced here, more furs were spread on both sides and the few other ladies of her generation were invited to sit down.
Then fur rugs were spread on the smaller kang behind the partition for Lady Xings generation, and twelve carved lacquer chairs covered with grey squirrel-skins and with a large bronze foot-warmer under each were placed in a row on either side for Baoqin and the other girls.
Madam You ceremoniously presented tea to the Lady Dowager while Jia Rongs wife served the other elderly ladies, after which Madam You served Lady Xings group and Jia Rongs wife the girls.
Xifeng and Li Wan stood by all this time in attendance.
After sipping some tea, Lady Xing and the rest rose to wait upon the Lady Dowager, and after a few words to the other old ladies she asked for her sedan-chair.
At once Xifeng stepped up to her and took her arm.
Weve prepared dinner for you, madam, demurred Madam You with a smile.
Why will you never honour us with your company at dinner on this day of the year before you leave?
Arent we as good as Xifeng?
Xifeng, supporting the old lady, urged her, Come on, Old Ancestress.
Pay no attention to her.
Lets go home to eat.
You have your hands full here with the ancestral sacrifice, said the Lady Dowager.
How could you put up with more trouble from me?
Besides, even though I dont dine here, you send dishes over every year.
Its better that way.
If theres more than I can eat today, I can save it for tomorrow.
That way, dont I get more of your food than by eating here?
Everyone laughed.
Then the old lady reminded Madam You, Make sure to post reliable people tonight, to see that no fires break out owing to carelessness.
As soon as Madam You had promised to see to this, they all went out to the lobby to mount their sedan-chairs.
The ladies slipped behind a screen while page boys brought in sedan-bearers to carry them out, Madam You and Lady Xing accompanying the others to the Rong Mansion.
As their chairs were borne out of the main gate, they saw the insignia, equipage and musical instruments of the Duke of Ningguo and the Duke of Rongguo displayed on the east and west sides of the street, which was closed today to passers-by.
Presently they reached the Rong Mansion and found all its gates, too, open right up to the main hall.
But instead of stopping at the lobby this time, they turned west after the main hall and alighted outside the Lady Dowagers reception room.
All trooping in after her, they discovered that the place was freshly furnished with embroidered screens and brocade cushions.
Fragrant herbs and aromatic pine and cedar-wood were burning in the brazier.
As soon as the Lady Dowager had taken her seat, some old serving-women reported that two or three ladies of her generation had come to offer their congratulations.
She rose to welcome them, for they had already entered, and after clasping hands and greeting her they were ushered to their seats and sipped some tea.
Then the Lady Dowager saw them out no farther than the inner ceremonial gate.
When she had returned and seated herself again, Jia Jing and Jia She led in the younger men of the family.
I put you to so much trouble the whole year round, dont stand on ceremony now, urged the old lady.
But the men in one group and the women in another paid their respects together, after which they took seats on both sides in order of seniority to receive the salutations of their juniors.
When all the men and maid-servants of both mansions had paid their respects according to their degree, there was a distribution of New-Year money, as well as pouches and gold and silver ingots.
Then they took their seats for the family-reunion feast, the men on the east side, the women on the west, and New-Year wine, happy-reunion soup, lucky fruit and wish-fulfilment cakes were served, until the Lady Dowager rose and went into the inner room to change her clothes, whereupon the party broke up.
That evening, incense and sacrifices were offered at the various Buddhist shrines and to the kitchen god and incense-sticks and paper effigies were burnt to Heaven and Earth in the main court of Lady Wangs compound.
Huge horn lanterns high on both sides of the main gate of Grand View Garden cast a brilliant light, while all the paths were lit with lanterns too.
High and low alike were splendidly dressed.
And the babel of talk and laughter, punctuated by the explosion of fire-crackers, went on without intermission the whole night long.
The next morning the Lady Dowager and others, rising at dawn, put on their robes of state and went with full pageantry to pay homage at the Imperial Palace as well as to offer the Imperial Concubine birthday congratulations.
Upon her return from the Imperial banquet, the old lady went to the Ning Mansion to sacrifice to the ancestors.
Then, going back to her own apartments she received the younger generations New-Year salutations.
After these ceremonies she changed her clothes and rested, not receiving any of the kinsmen and friends who came to offer their congratulations but simply chatting with Aunt Xue and Aunt Li or playing draughts and card-games with Baoyu, Baoqin, Baoehai, Daiyu and the other girls.
Lady Wang and Xifeng were busy entertaining guests, for an unending stream of friends and relatives attended the New-Year feasts and operas held daily for about a week in their hall and courtyard.
And as soon as this was over, both mansions were decked out and hung with lanterns for the approaching Lantern Festival.
The Lady Dowager was feasted by hia She on the eleventh, by Jia Zhen on the twelfth, staying with them on each occasion for half a day, while time forbids us to enumerate all the feasts to which Lady Wang and Xifeng were invited.
On the evening of the fifteenth, the Lady Dowager had tables spread in the big hall in the small garden, an opera company hired, and gay lanterns of every description displayed at a family feast for her kinsmen in both mansions.
The only one not invited was Jia Jing, who abstained from both wine and meat.
After the ancestral sacrifice on the seventeenth he moved back outside the city to live in seclusion but even during his stay at home he remained quietly in his room, ignoring all the festivities around him.
As for Jia She, after sitting a while at his mothers feast he also asked her permission to withdraw and this the old lady readily granted knowing that his presence would cause a general constraint.
Having his own different pleasures, he went home to enjoy the festival by drinking with his proteges amid a bevy of gaily-dressed girls, to the sound of music and singing.
In the old ladys hail about ten tables were set for the feast.
Beside each, on a teapoy, stood an incense-burner burning Palace incense conferred by the Emperor an incense box and a vase a miniature garden about eight inches long, four inches wide and two or three inches high, with fresh flowers among small mossy rocks teacups made in a previous reign and gay little teapots filled with the finest tea on a small tray of Western lacquerware.
Set out too was a crimson gauze screen in a carved purple -sandalwood frame embroidered with flowers and calligraphy.
The embroiderer, a Suzhou girl called Huiniang, had come from a family of officials and literati and been a skilled calligrapher and painter but occasionally she did some embroidery too purely for her own amusement, not to sell.
All the flowers she embroidered were copied from paintings by famous artists of the Tang, Song, Yuan and Ming dynasties thus the compositions and colours were based on excellent models, unlike the stereotyped compositions and garish colours produced by artisans.
Beside each spray of flowers there were lines of verse about these flowers from short poems or songs by poets of old, all embroidered in cursive script with black silk thread.
And the strokes of these characters, whether light or heavy, continuous or broken, were exactly the same as if written with a brush a far cry from the grotesquely distorted scripts in the embroidery sold in the market-place.
As Huiniang was not out to make money from this skill of hers, although her embroidery was widely known few could procure a specimen of it.
Many rich and noble official families were unable to acquire one.
It was known as Hui embroidery, and some vulgar hucksters had recently started imitating it to fool people and make a profit.
Huiniang had been fated to die at the early age of eighteen, so that no more of her work could be obtained.
Any family which possessed one or two samples only kept them as rare treasures.
And then certain admirers of Hui embroidery among the literati declared that to call such superb work embroidery showed a lack of respect and failed to do justice to its beauty.
After discussion they agreed not to call it embroidery but art.
Hence it had now come to be known as the Hui art and a genuine piece was priceless.
Even a wealthy family like the bias had only acquired three pieces, two of which had been presented to the Emperor the previous year.
All they had left now was this screen with sixteen panels.
The Lady Dowager prized it so much that she would not display it to guests with her other ornaments.
Instead, she kept it in her own apartments to enjoy when in a good mood or entertaining.
There was also a variety of porcelain vases from old kilns filled with flowers symbolizing The Three Companions of Winter and Wealth and Splendour in a Marble Hall.
Aunt Li and Aunt Xue took the seats of honour.
To their east stood a carved openwork dragon-screen with below it a low couch spread with cushions, pillows and furs.
Beside the pillows, an elegant low table of foreign lacquer with gilt designs was set out with a teapot, cups, rinse-bowls and towels as well as a spectacle-case.
Here the Lady Dowager reclined to chat with the others, putting on her spectacles whenever she wanted to watch the performance.
My old bones are aching, she told Aunt Xue and Aunt Li.
Excuse me if I just keep you company lying here.
She made Hupo sit beside her to massage her legs with a small pestle.
In place of a banquet table before the couch, there stood only one tall teapoy on which were a screen, flower-vase and incense-burner, and a small, elegant long-legged table laid with winecups, spoons and chopsticks.
Baoqin, Xiangyun, Daiyu and Baoyu were told to sit at this table to share her feast for before each dish was served to them it was shown to the old lady and, if she fancied it, left on her small table first for her to taste, then removed to the four young peoples table.
So they could be regarded as sitting with the Lady Dowager.
Lower down sat Lady Xing and Lady Wang then Madam You, Li Wan, Xifeng and Jia Rongs wife while Baochai, Li Wen, Li Qi, Xiuyan, Yingchun and the other girls had tables on the west side.
From the great beams on either side hung crystal, hibiscus-shaped chandeliers with coloured tassels.
In front of each table was a candelabrum of Western enamel with a lacquer shade in the shape of an inverted lotus leaf and this could be turned outwards to shade the coloured candles light from the feasters and illumine the stage more brightly.
The lattices of the windows and doors had been removed and in their place hung gaily-tasselled Palace lanterns.
From the eaves of the house, as well as the covered walks on either side, hung lanterns made of horn, glass, gauze, cut-glass or silk and paper with embroidered or painted, raised or incised designs.
Jia Zhen, bia Lian, Jia Huan, Jia Cong, Jia Rong, Jia Qin, Jia Yun, Jia Ling and Jia Chang were seated at tables in the corridors.
The Lady Dowager had sent to invite all the members of the elan.
But some were too old to enjoy lively celebrations some had no one to mind the house for them some were bed-ridden some envied the rich and were ashamed of their own poverty some disliked or feared Xifeng some were timid and unused to company for one reason or another they would not or could not come.
Thus, large as the clan was, the only female relative to appear was Jia Cuns mother, nee Lou, who brought her son and the only men were Jia Qin, Jia Yun, Jia Chang and Jia Ling, all of whom worked under Xifeng.
In spite of their depleted numbers, however, it was quite a merry family feast.
And now Lin Zhixiaos wife led in six serving-women carrying three low tables, each covered with red felt and piles of bright copper coins, fresh from the mint, strung together with red cord.
Mrs. Lin had two of these tables set before Aunt Xue and Aunt Li and the other in front of the Lady Dowager, who told her where to put it.
Knowing the family custom, serving-women then untied the coins and stacked them up.
This was towards the end of the scene Encounter in the Tower from The West Tower, when Yu Shuye flings off in a rage.
The girl playing Wenbao ad-libbed So youre leaving in a huff.
Luckily this is the fifteenth of the first month, and the Old Ancestress of the Rong Mansion is holding a family feast.
Im going to ride there as fast as I can on this horse to ask for some goodies now.
Thats the thing to do.
-386 This set the old lady and the whole party laughing.
Aunt Xue exclaimed, Clever little imp!
Shes only nine, remarked Xifeng.
That was smart of her, said the Lady Dowager.
Reward the child.
Three serving-women, who had small baskets ready, stepped forward at this command to fill their baskets with coins from the three tables.
Then going to the stage they announced Our Old Ancestress, Madam Xue and Madam Li are giving this to Wenbao to buy goodies.
With that they emptied their baskets and the coins scattered, clinking, all over the stage.
Jia Zhen and Jia Lian, too, had ordered their pages in secret to bring in several crates of coins.
To know how these were distributed, read the next chapter.
Chapter 54 The Lady Dowager Debunks Trite Stories Xifeng Clowns to Amuse Her Elders When Jia Zhen and Jia Lian heard the call for largesse they made their pages scatter the coins which they had prepared in advance, and the clink and jingle of money on the stage delighted the old lady.
Then, as both men rose from their seats, a page brought Jia Lian a silver pot of freshly-heated wine which he carried himself as he followed Jia Zhen inside.
First Jia Zhen bowed to Aunt Li and, taking her cup, turned round so that Jia Lian might fill it.
He then bowed to Aunt Xue and filled her cup as well.
The two ladies rose protesting laughingly, Please take seats, gentlemen.
Why be so formal?
All but Lady Xing and Lady Wang had risen from their seats and were standing by them, with their hands at their sides, to show respect.
Now Jia Zhen and Jia Lian went up to the Lady Dowagers couch and, as it was low, knelt down, Jia Zhen holding her cup and Jia Lian, behind him, the wine-pot.
Although only the two of them were proposing toasts, ha Huan and the other young men had trooped in behind them, and when these two knelt the rest fell on their knees too.
Baoyu made haste to follow suit.
Why should you join in?
whispered Xiangyun, nudging him.
Better offer a toast yourself.
I will later on, he replied softly.
Only when his cousins had risen after pouring out the wine, did he rise to his feet.
After this toast, Jia Zhen and Jia Lian got up to pour wine for Lady Xing and Lady Wang.
How about our cousins?
asked Jia Zhen then.
Get along now and leave them in peace, answered the ladies.
Then Jia Zhen and the other young men withdrew.
It was not yet the second watch.
Eight scenes from Eight Gallants at the Lantern Festival were being performed, and the climax had just been reached when Baoyu rose to go out.
Where are you off to?
asked his grandmother.
Watch out for the fireworks outside, or you may get burnt by some of the sparks raining down.
Im not going far, he replied.
Ill be back soon.
She ordered some attendants to escort him, and he went out followed only by Sheyue, Qiuwen and a few young maids.
Wheres Xiren?
asked the Lady Dowager.
She must be getting above herself if she only sends the younger girls out.
Lady Wang rose to explain, She couldnt very well come, madam, because shes newly in mourning for her mother.
The old lady nodded but commented, A girl in service cant really afford the niceties of filial piety.
If she were still waiting on me, shed hardly absent herself at this time, would she?
This all comes of our leniency.
Having enough servants we dont insist on these things, so this seems to be the rule now.
Even if she werent in mourning, we need someone in the Garden this evening to keep an eye on the fireworks and prevent accidents, put in Xifeng quickly.
Whenever we have operas here all the other maids from the Garden sneak out to watch, but Xiren can be relied on to see to things.
Besides, this means that when Baoyu goes back presently to sleep hell find everything ready for him.
If shed come too, the others are so thoughtless that hed find his bedding cold on his return, no tea made and everything at sixes and sevens.
Thats why I told her to stay there to look after the house and see that everythings ready for his return.
Then we here neednt worry, while she can observe the proprieties.
Isnt that better all round?
But if our Old Ancestress wants her, Ill send for her.
Youre quite right, said the Lady Dowager.
Trust you to have thought it all out.
Dont send for her.
But when did her mother die?
How is it I didnt know?
Have you forgotten, madam?
Xifeng smiled.
The other day she came herself to report to you.
The old lady thought back and chuckled.
So she did.
What a memory I have!
How can Your Ladyship remember every little thing?
remarked the others laughingly.
She was only a child when she came to wait on me, recalled the old lady with a sigh.
Then she waited on Xiangyun for a time, until finally I gave her to our young demon king, and what a dance hers led her all these years!
Its not as if her parents had been our slaves or received any special kindness from us.
After her mother died I meant to give her some silver for the funeral, but somehow it slipped my mind.
The other day the mistress gave her forty taels, and that should have been enough, interposed Xifeng.
The Lady Dowager nodded.
Thats all right then.
As it happens, Yuanyangs mother has just died too but because her homes in the south I didnt send her back for the funeral.
Now they can keep each other company.
She ordered a serving-woman to take them some refreshments.
Yuanyangs gone without waiting to be told, put in Hupo with a smile.
They went on with their feast then, still watching the opera.
Meanwhile Baoyu had gone straight back to the Garden.
And seeing that he was going to his own quarters, the nurses did not follow him but sat down by the stove in the Garden gatehouse to drink and gamble with the women in charge of making tea there.
Baoyu found his compound brightly lit but strangely silent.
Can they all be in bed?
wondered Sheyue.
Lets go in quietly and give them a fright.
Tiptoeing past the full-length looking-glass, they saw Xiren lying opposite someone on the kang, with two or three old serving-women dozing on the other side.
Baoyu thought they were asleep.
He was on the point of going in when he heard Yuanyang say with a sigh Theres no telling what will happen in this life.
You were on your own here while your parents lived outside and were for ever travelling east and west, so no one would have expected that youd be able to attend their death-beds.
Yet this year your mother died at home and you were able to go to her funeral.
Yes, said Xiren.
I never thought Id be able to be there when she breathed her last.
And the mistress gave me forty taels too, which was a very handsome reward to her for having brought me up, and more than I dared hope for.
Baoyu turned to whisper to Sheyue, I didnt know Yuanyang was here too.
If I go in, shell leave again in a huff.
Wed better go back and leave them to chat in peace.
Im glad she came, Xiren was lonely all on her own.
So they slipped out quietly.
Then Baoyu, stepping behind some rocks, lifted his gown.
Sheyue and Qiuwen had stopped and averted their faces.
Dont undo your pants till youve squatted down, they cried, or you may catch a chill on your stomach!
When the two younger maids behind knew what he was up to, they hurried to the room where tea was made to get hot water.
As Baoyu was about to rejoin the others, two of the servants wives approached.
Whos that?
they called.
Its Baoyu, replied Qiuwen.
Dont shout like that or you may startle him.
Sorry, we didnt know, said the women with a smile.
So weve caused you trouble on this festival.
You must all be very busy, miss, these days.
As they had drawn level now, Sheyue asked them what they were carrying.
Some cakes and fruit from the old lady for Miss Jin and Miss Hua.
Theyre playing The Eight Gallants over there, not The Magic Box, quipped Qiuwen.
So where does this Goddess Jinhua come from?
1 Baoyu made Qiuwen and Sheyue open the hampers, and as they did so the two women squatted down.
Seeing some of the choicest fruits, sweetmeats, cakes and dishes from the feast there, he nodded and moved on.
The two girls hastily closed the hampers and followed.
Those are friendly, tactful women, remarked Baoyu cheerfully.
Theyll be tired out themselves these days, but they said how busy you must be.
Theyre not boastful show-offs.
Those two are all right, rejoined Sheyue.
Some of the others really have no manners.
Youre intelligent girls, he said.
You should make allowances for those poor coarse creatures.
By now he had approached the Garden gate.
The nurses, who had been looking out for him while drinking and gaming, tagged after him as soon as he reappeared and followed him to the corridor behind the feasting hall in the small garden.
There the two young maids had been waiting for some time, one holding a basin, the other a towel and a small flask of ointment.
Qiuwen dipped her fingers in the basin.
How careless youre growing, she scolded.
Fancy bringing such cold water!
Its the fault of the weather, miss, explained the girl.
I took boiling water for fear it might get cold but its cooled off all the same.
Just then, as luck would have it, up came a nurse with a kettle of boiling water.
Please give me some of that, granny, begged the girl.
This is to make tea for the old lady, retorted the nurse.
Fetch some for yourself, lass.
It wont hurt you to walk a few steps.
Never mind who its for, put in Qiuwen.
If you wont give us any, Ill pour water from the old ladys teapot to wash in.
When the woman saw it was Qiuwen, she hastily poured them some water.
Thats enough, said Qiuwen.
At your age you should have more sense.
As if we didnt know this was for the old lady!
But why do you think we asked?
The nurse smiled and apologized, My eyes are so dim I didnt see who it was, miss.
When Baoyu had washed his hands, the girl with the flask poured some ointment over them which he rubbed in.
Then Qiuwen and Sheyue, having rinsed their hands in the hot water and rubbed on ointment too, escorted him back to the hail.
Baoyu now called for a pot of warm wine to toast Aunt Li and Aunt Xue, who both begged him to be seated.
Let the boy fill your cups, said the Lady Dowager.
And mind you empty them.
She drained her own cup then.
And when Lady Xing and Lady Wang followed suit, Aunt Xue and Aunt Li had to drink up too.
Fill your cousins cups, the old lady told Baoyu.
See that you do it properly and make them all drink up.
Baoyu assented and filled every cup in turn.
When he came to Daiyu she refused to drink but held the cup up to his lips, thanking him with a smile when he tossed it off.
He poured her another cup.
Dont drink cold wine, Baoyu, warned Xifeng.
If you do, your hands will tremble too much to write or draw your bow later on.
I havent drunk any cold wine, he protested.
I know.
Im just warning you.
Having filled all the cups except that of Jia Rongs wife, whose cup was filled by a maid, he went out to the corridor to toast Jia Zhen and the other men and kept them company for a while before returning to his seat inside.
Presently soup was served, followed by New-Year dumplings.
Tell the actresses to rest now, said the Lady Dowager.
Those poor children must have some hot soup and hot food before they go on.
She ordered sweetmeats of every kind to be taken to the actresses.
Now that the performance had stopped, one of the matrons brought in two women story-tellers who often visited the house, putting stools for them at one side.
They were told to sit down and handed a fiddle and a lute.
Then the Lady Dowager asked Aunt Li and Aunt Xue what they would like to hear.
Anything will do, they answered.
She asked the two women what new stories they had.
One about the end of the Tang Dynasty and the Five dynasties, they replied.
What is its name?
-378 The Phoenix Seeks Its Mate.
Thats a good title, she remarked.
Why is it called that?
Lets hear what its about, and if it sounds good you can tell it.
Its about a country gentleman named Wang Zhong at the end of the Tang Dynasty, said one of the women.
His family came from Jinling.
After serving as a minister under two emperors, he retired in his old age.
He had an only son called Wang Xifeng.
The whole party laughed at that.
-386 The same name as our minx Xifeng, chuckled the old lady.
Some serving-women nudged the story-tellers.
Thats our Second Mistress name.
Be careful, they warned.
Never mind.
Go on, said the Lady Dowager.
The story-tellers rose to apologize.
We deserve to drop dead.
We didnt know it was Her Ladyships honourable name.
2 What does that matter?
asked Xifeng cheerfully.
Plenty of people have the same name.
Go on.
Then one of the women continued, One year, old Mr. Wang sent his son to take the examination in the capital.
Running into heavy rain on the way he took shelter in a village where, as it happened, there lived a gentleman named Li, an old family friend of Mr. Wangs, who put the young man up in his study.
This Mr. Li had no son, only one daughter Chuluan 3 who was thoroughly accomplished in lyre-playing, chess, calligraphy and painting.
I understand the title now, interposed the old lady.
You neednt go on.
I can guess the rest.
Naturally Wang Xifeng wants to marry this Miss Chuluan.
So youve heard this story before, Old Ancestress.
The story-teller smiled.
The others explained, The old lady can guess the ending, even if she hasnt heard the story before.
Theres a sameness about all these tales, complained the old lady.
And theyre so stereotyped all about talented scholars and lovely ladies.
Fancy describing girls who behave so badly as fine young ladies!
Why, theyre nothing of the sort.
Theyre always introduced as girls from cultured families whose fathers are invariably high officials or prime ministers.
In that case, an only daughter would be treasured and brought up as a real fine young lady, well-versed in literature and a model of propriety yet her first glimpse of a handsome man, whether a relative or family friend, sets her thoughts running on marriage.
She forgets her parents then and gets up to all sorts of devilry, behaving quite unlike a fine lady.
If she carries on like that shes surely no lady, no matter how her head is crammed with learning.
If a man whose head is crammed with learning becomes a thief, does the court spare him on account of his talents?
So these story-tellers contradict themselves.
Besides, not only would the daughter of a good scholar-official family be well-educated and a model of propriety so would her mother.
And even if her father had retired, a big family like that would have plenty of nurses and maids to look after the girl.
How is it that in all these stories, when such things happen, no one has any inkling of it except the girl herself and one trusted maid?
What are all the others doing, Id like to know?
Isnt that contradictory?
Everyone laughed.
The old ladys shown up their lies!
Theres a reason for this, she continued.
Either the people who spin these tales envy the rank and riches of other families, or ask for help which isnt granted, and so they make up these stories to discredit them.
Or else theyre so bewitched by reading such tales that they wish they could get a fine young lady themselves, and so they invent these things for their own amusement.
But what do they know about the ways of scholar-official families?
Lets not talk about those great families in their stories even in a middle-rank family like ours such things couldnt possibly happen.
Theyre talking utter nonsense!
Thats why we never allow such stories here, and our girls have never heard any.
Now that Im growing old and the girls apartments are some distance away, I may listen to a tale or two to pass the time but as soon as the girls come I put a stop to it.
Thats the rule for a good family, madam, approved Aunt Li and Aunt Xue.
Even in our homes we dont let the children hear such frivolous nonsense.
Xifeng stepped forward then to pour more wine.
Thats enough, she cried.
The wines cold but youd better take a sip, Old Ancestress, to wet your gullet before debunking their lies.
This is a story called Debunking Lies which is happening in this reign, here and now, in this year, month, day and hour.
Our Old Ancestress, with only one mouth, can hardly speak for two families at once.
As two blooms grow on separate boughs, lets deal with one first.
Never mind whether true or false, lets go back to enjoying the lanterns and opera.
4 Just allow these two relatives to have a cup of wine and enjoy two more scenes of the show.
After that you can go on debunking stories, starting with those of the very first dynasty down to the present one how about it?
She had filled everyones cup, chuckling as she spoke, and by now the whole company was prostrate with laughter.
The two story-tellers as well were in fits of mirth.
What a tongue Her Ladyship has!
they cried.
If she started telling stories shes soon do us out of a job.
Dont get too carried away, cautioned Aunt Xue.
The gentlemen are outside, this isnt like ordinary times.
Theres only cousin Zhen, retorted Xifeng.
Weve been like brother and sister since we were small and played naughty tricks together.
Since my marriage, of course, Ive behaved much more correctly.
But even if we hadnt played together as children and were only in-laws, isnt there a story in The Twenty-four Acts of Filial Piety about someone dressing in motley and clowning to amuse his parents?
6 They cant come and amuse our Old Ancestress, so if I manage to make her laugh and eat a little more, keeping everybody happy, you should all thank me instead of laughing at me.
Its true that I havent had a good laugh for the last couple of days, said the Lady Dowager.
Now that shes raised my spirits by her antics Ill have another cup of wine.
sipping her drink, she told Baoyu to offer Xifeng a toast.
I dont need him, declared Xifeng laughingly.
Ill cash in on some of your good fortune, madam.
She took the old ladys cup and drank what was left, then handed the cup to a maid and took another from a basin of hot water.
All the cups on the tables were changed then for fresh ones from the basin, and when more wine had been poured they resumed their seats.
If our Old Ancestress doesnt want to hear this story, shall we play a tune?
asked one of the story-tellers.
Yes, play The Generals Command, ordered the old lady.
The two women tuned their instruments and played until the Lady Dowager asked the time.
On being told that it was the third watch, she observed No wonder its growing so chilly.
Some young maids had already brought warmer clothes.
Now Lady Wang rose to ask, Why not move to the lobby with the heated floor, madam?
Our two relatives neednt be treated like outsiders.
Well keep them company for you.
In that case why dont we all move inside?
countered the old lady.
That would be cosier.
There may not be room for us all, demurred Lady Wang.
I know what.
Instead of using all these tables, well just join two or three together so that we can sit side by side, cosy and snug.
They all liked this idea and rose from their seats.
The servants hastily cleared the feast away, put three large tables together in the lobby, and brought in more refreshments.
Dont stand on ceremony, anyone, said the old lady when all was ready.
Just sit where I tell you.
She made Aunt Xue and Aunt Li take the seats of honour on the north side and took an east seat herself with Baoqin, Daiyu and Xiangyun beside her.
Baoyu, told to sit by his mother, found a place between her and Lady Xing.
Baochai and the other girls sat on the west side, Madam Lou and her son Jia Jun came next, then Jia Lan between Madam You and Li Wan, and Jia Rongs wife on the south side.
The Lady Dowager now sent word to ha Zhen, You can take your brothers away, I shall soon be retiring.
At once all the men came in to take their leave.
Go along, said the old lady.
No need to come in.
Weve just sat down and dont want to stand up again.
Go and rest now tomorrow will be a busy day.
Very good, madam, replied Jia Zhen.
But at least let us leave Jung here to serve you wine.
Thats right, she agreed.
Id forgotten him.
With a word of assent Jia Zhen turned to lead ha Lian and the others out and, having told servants to see ha Cong and Jia Huang home, the two of them went off cheerfully to enjoy the company of some singsong girls.
But no more of this.
Meanwhile the Lady Dowager remarked with a smile, I was just thinking that to make our pleasure complete we ought to have a married couple here.
Id forgotten Rong.
Now with him here weve nothing missing.
Sit next to your wife, Rong, and we shall have a married pair.
Some matrons announced that another opera was starting.
We women folk are just having a pleasant chat, said the old lady.
We dont want any more noise.
Its so late, those child-actresses must be freezing.
Let them rest a while.
Go and fetch our girl-actresses here to put on a couple of items on this stage.
The troupe from outside can watch.
The women hurried off to send a messenger to Grand View Garden with instructions for the pages at the inner gate.
These boys went straight to the changing room to escort all the grown people in the company out, leaving only the young performers.
Then the instructor from Pear Fragrance Court brought Wenguan and the eleven other girl actresses out through the side gate of the corridor, accompanied by some women carrying bundles.
Since there was no time to bring all their stage properties, they had chosen only the costumes for a few operas which they judged the old lady might like.
The women led the actresses inside, and when they had paid their respects they stood there at respectful attention.
Its the first month of the year, why didnt your instructor let you out to enjoy yourselves?
asked the old lady.
What have you been rehearsing lately?
The eight scenes from The Eight Gallants were so noisy that theyve made my head ache.
Lets have something quieter.
Look, Madam Xue and Madam Li here both have opera troupes at home theyve seen countless good performances, and their young ladies have watched better operas and heard better singing than ours.
These young actresses weve hired today are from troupes trained by well-known families of opera connoisseurs, better than many older companies, for all that theyre only children.
We mustnt make a poor showing today, so lets try something new.
Fangguan shall sing us Seeking the Dream 7 with no accompaniment but a two-string fiddle and a flute.
Very good, replied Wenguan with a smile.
Our performance cant possibly measure up to the standard to which these ladies are accustomed.
They can only judge of our delivery and voices.
Thats it, said the old lady.
What a clever child!
exclaimed Aunt Li and Aunt Xue.
Youre helping the old lady to make fun of us.
We just put on shows for fun here, were not professionals thats why you wont find us following the usual fashion, said the Lady Dowager.
She then told Kuiguan, Sing that aria Huiming Delivers a Letter 8 and dont trouble to make up.
Just sing a couple of scenes to amuse these ladies with our amateur style.
But mind you do your best.
Wenguan and the others assented and withdrew to change their clothes.
First they staged Seeking the Dream, then The Letter Is Delivered.
All listened in absolute silence.
It isnt easy for her.
Ive seen truly hundreds of companies perform, but never heard an accompaniment of only flutes, observed Aunt Xue presently.
There have been cases, the Lady Dowager told her.
For instance that melody in The Western Tower Longing by the Chu River is often sung to a flute accompaniment by the young male actor.
It is rare, though, to have a whole scene like this.
It just depends on ones taste.
This is nothing unusual.
Pointing at Xiangyun she added, When I was her age, her grandfather had an opera troupe in which someone performed real lyre music when they played Listening to the Lyre from The Western Chamber Seduction by the Lyre in The Romance of the Jade Hair-pin and Eighteen Songs to the Hunnish Pipe in The Lute Players Return.
0 What do you think of that?
All admitted that such a thing was even rarer.
Then the old lady told servants to order Wenguan and her troupe to play with lute and flute Full Moon at the Lantern Festival, and they went off to carry out her instructions.
At this point ha Rong and his wife offered toasts all round.
The Lady Dowager was now in such high spirits that Xifeng suggested, While the story-tellers are here, why dont we get them to drum for us while we pass round a spray of plum-blossom and play Spring Lights Up the Eye-brows.
Thats a fine drinking-game, and this is just the time for it, approved the old lady.
She sent for a black lacquered drum with copper tuds which was kept for drinking-games, asked the story-tellers to beat it, and took a spray of red plum-blossom from the table.
Whoever has the blossom when the drum stops must drink a cup and say something, she decreed.
The rest of us arent so smart as our Old Ancestress, objected Xifeng.
If we get stuck, it wont be any fun.
Lets find something that highbrows and lowbrows alike can enjoy.
Suppose the one caught with the blossom tells a joke?
As Xifeng was noted for her jokes and endless fund of original quips, this met with the approval of all the feasters as well as the maid-servants there, both old and young.
The young maids hurried out to urge their friends Come quick!
The Second Mistress it going to tell a joke.
In no time at all the room was crowded with maids.
As soon as the performance ended, the old lady had refreshments sent to Wenguan and the other actresses.
Then she ordered the drumming to start.
The story-tellers, being old hands at this, varied the tempo and the plum was passed from hand to hand to its rhythm.
First slow as the dripping of water from a clepsydra, the drumming soon gathered speed like the patter of peas being poured into a bowl.
Then, after a rapid tattoo like a horse stampeding or sudden flashes of lightning, the sound abruptly broke off just as the plum-blossom reached the old ladys hand.
A roar of laughter went up, and Jia Rong at once stepped forward to fill her cup.
Naturally the old ladys face should light up first, cried the others.
Then we shall be able to share in her happiness.
I dont mind drinking a cup, she rejoined.
But I cant think of a joke.
Why, your Ladyship knows even more and better jokes than Xifeng, they expostulated.
Do tell us a good one, madam.
Ive no new jokes, but Ill just have to brazen it out.
So here goes, said the old lady.
Well, a family had ten sons and ten daughters-in-law.
The tenth daughter-in-law was the cleverest, so smart and so well-spoken that she was the favourite of her father and mother-in-law, who kept finding fault with the nine others.
This seemed so unfair that the others put their heads together.
Weve been dutiful daughters-in-law, they said.
Were just not as smooth-spoken as that bitch, which is why the old couple keep on singing her praises.
Who can we complain to about this injustice?
The eldest one suggested, Lets go tomorrow to the Temple of the King of Hell to offer incense and complain to him.
Well ask why, since weve all been born human, that bitch alone was given the gift of the gab while the rest of us are so dumb?
The other eight approved of this idea.
They all went the nest day to the temple and offered incense, then slept there at the foot of the altar while their spirits waited for the King of Hell to appear.
They waited for a long time but nothing happened, and they were growing impatient when they saw Monkey King come somersaulting down through the clouds.
At sight of these nine spirits, he raised his magic staff and threatened to beat them.
The nine spirits knelt down fearfully to beg for mercy.
Then Monkey asked what brought them there, and they told him the whole story.
He stamped his foot.
So thats the reason!
he sighed, Its a good thing you met me.
If youd waited for the King of Hell, he wouldnt have known.
The nine spirits pleaded, Have pity and tell us, Great Sage.
Theats all we ask.
Thats easy, answered Monkey with a smile.
The day you ten girls were born, Id gone to visit the King of Hell and happened to piss on the ground.
Your youngest sister-in-law lapped it up.
If you want the gift of the gab, Ive plenty more piss you can drink if you like.
The whole company burst out laughing.
Fine!
cried Xifeng.
Its lucky were all so dumb here.
Otherwise people might say wed drunk monkeys piss.
Madam You and Madam Lou joked to Li Wan, The one whos drunk monkeys piss is playing innocent!
Aunt Xue remarked with a chuckle, Topical jokes are always the funniest.
The drums started up again then, and some young maids who just wanted to hear Xifengs jokes softly told the story-tellers that they would cough when it was time to stop.
The plum-blossom went round twice and had just reached Xifeng when they coughed, and silence fell.
Now weve caught her!
the others exulted.
Drink up quickly and let us have a good one.
Just dont make us split our sides laughing.
Xifeng drained her cup and thought for a second.
In the middle of the first month, she began, during the Lantern Festival a family was having a fine lively time, enjoying lanterns and drinking together.
There were the great-grand-mother, grandmother, mothers-in-law, daughters-in-law, grand-daughters-in-law, great-grand-daughters-in-law, grandsons, grand-nephews and a pack of great-great-grandsons, as well as grand-daughters and grand-nieces on the paternal and maternal sides, and grand-nieces on the brothers and sisters sides... Aiya, it was really lively....
Already laughing they cried, Listen to the way she runs on.
Who else is she going to put in?
If you drag me in Ill pinch your lips, warned Madam You.
Xifeng sprang to her feet to protest, Here am I hard at work, yet you keep butting in.
All right, I wont say any more.
Go on, urged the old lady.
What happened?
Xifeng reflected before answering, They sat up together feasting all night, and then the party broke up.
Having said this gravely with a straight face she stopped.
The others waited in some mystification for her to go on, but all that followed was an icy silence.
Xiangyun stared at Xifeng until she said with a smile, Heres another about the Lantern Festival.
A man carried a fire-cracker as large as a house out of town to let it off, and thousands of people followed to watch.
One fellow was so impatient that he set light to it on the sly with a stick of incense.
Then -- Whizz!
Bang!
the crowd roared with laughter and dispersed.
But the man carrying the fire-cracker complained What a sloppy job the cracker-maker did!
How could it burst apart before being lit?
Surely hed heard the bang?
objected Xiangyun.
The man was deaf, Xifeng told her.
When this had sunk in, everybody burst out laughing.
Then reverting to the unfinished joke they asked What happened afterwards in your first story?
Do finish that one too.
What a question to ask!
cried Xifeng, banging the table.
The next day would have been the sixteenth, when the festival would be over and I suppose everyone would be busy clearing up.
In that flurry whod know what happened afterwards?
At this they laughed again.
The fourth watch has sounded outside, announced Xifeng.
I think our Old Ancestress is tired, and its time for us to whizz off too like that deaf mans fire-cracker.
All the rest were rocking with laughter, their handkerchiefs pressed to their mouths.
Madam You wagged a finger at Xifeng.
How this creature does rattle on!
she spluttered.
The minx is growing perter all the time, chuckled the Lady Dowager.
She mentioned fire-crackers.
Well let off some fireworks, too, to sober ourselves up.
Jia Rong promptly went out to get pages to set up screens and stands in the courtyard on which to place or hang the fireworks.
These had come as tribute from different parts of the country, and although not very large they were most ingeniously made in different colours, ornamented with scenes from stories and fitted with all kinds of fire-crackers.
As Daiyu was too delicate to stand much noise, her grandmother help her close to her while Aunt Xue put her arms around Xiangyun, who declared with a smile that she was not afraid.
She likes nothing better than letting off big fire-crackers herself, explained Baochai.
Why should she be scared of these?
Lady Wang had taken Baoyu on her lap.
No one cares for poor little me!
Xifeng complained.
I do, chuckled Madam You.
Come and sit on my knee and dont be afraid.
Youre behaving like a spoilt brat again.
The sound of fireworks has sent you off your head, just as if youd eaten bees wax.
When this partys over lets go and let off fireworks in the Garden, proposed Xifeng gaily.
Im better at that than those page boys.
Meanwhile a pyrotechnical display was going on outside, including sparklers like A Skyful of Stars, Nine Dragons Soar to the Clouds, A Bolt from the Blue , and Ten Peals in the Air.
After this they ordered the young actresses to perform Lotus Flowers Fall, largesse was scattered all over the stage and the little girls scampered round gaily to snatch up the coins.
By the time soup was served the Lady Dowager remarked, Its been a long night and I feel rather hungry.
-386 Weve prepared some duck congee, Xifeng told her.
Id prefer something less greasy, was the reply.
Theres date congee too for the ladies observing a fast.
Ones too greasy, the other too sweet, complained the old lady.
Weve almond gruel as well.
Only Im afraid thats sweet too.
That will do for me.
Then the tables were cleared, fresh delicacies served, and after a small collation they rinsed their mouths with tea and the party broke up.
In the morning of the seventeenth they went to the Ning Mansions Ancestral Temple to sacrifice once more, after which the temple gates were closed, the ancestral portraits put away, and everybody went home.
That day Aunt Xue asked the others over to a New-Year feast.
Other feasts were given by the stewards on the eighteenth by Lai Da, on the nineteenth by Lai Sheng of the Ning Mansion, on the twentieth by Lin Zhixiao, on the twenty-first by Shan Taliang, and on the twenty-second by Wu Xinteng.
The Lady Dowager went to some of these only, staying on till the end if she was in a good mood, otherwise leaving after a short time.
As for relatives and friends who came in person to invite the Jias to a feast or to enjoy a feast given by them, she declined to meet all, making Lady Wang, Lady Xing and Xifeng entertain the callers for her.
And Baoyu, claiming that his grandmother needed him to amuse her, went nowhere but to Wang Zitengs house.
So the old lady attended only those stewards family parties where she could relax and enjoy herself.
But enough of this.
Soon the festival was over.
To know what happened afterwards, read the next chapter.
Chapter 55 A Stupid Concubine Insults Her Own Daughter in a Futile Squabble A Spiteful Servant Imposes Upon Her Young Mistress The Lantern Festival passed.
As one of the Dowager Concubines was unwell and the Emperor was known for his filial piety which had brought harmony to the land, all the Imperial Concubines ate and dressed simply, their visits home were cancelled, and there were no New-Year feasts or entertainments in the Palace.
Consequently, there was no display of lantern riddles in the Rong Mansion this year.
No sooner was the bustle of New Year over than Xifeng had a miscarriage.
She had to stop running the household for a month, and two or three doctors attended her every day but overestimating her own strength, although staying indoors she continued mapping out plans for the household, which Pinger was sent to report to Lady Wang.
All advice to rest she ignored.
Lady Wang felt as if she had lost her right arm, and simply had not the energy to cope.
She decided important matters herself, entrusting lesser domestic affairs to Li Wan for the time being.
But Li Wan, being one of those people who have more virtue than ability, inevitably let the servants have their own way so Lady Wang told Tanchun to help her out for a month, until Xifeng was well enough to take over again.
Xifeng had a delicate constitution, however, and as a girl had never looked after her health.
In her passion to shine she had overtaxed her strength, with the result that her miscarriage left her very weak.
A month after it she was still losing blood.
Although she kept this a secret, everyone could see from her pallor and loss of weight that she was not taking proper care of herself.
Lady Wang urged her not to worry about family affairs, but just to take medicine and recuperate.
And as she herself was afraid that if she fell really ill other people would gloat, she concentrated on getting better as soon as possible.
However, she did not start to mend for some time not until the autumn did she begin to recover and gradually stop losing blood.
But this is anticipating.
Meanwhile, seeing that for the time being Tanchun and Li Wan could hardly be relieved of their responsibilities, and that there were many people in the Garden who needed to be kept in order, Lady Wang enlisted Baochais help as well.
The old serving-women are no use, she told her.
They drink and gamble whenever they have the chance, sleeping during the day so as to play cards at night.
I know all theyre up to.
When Xifeng was up and about there was someone to scare them, but now theyll be taking advantage.
Youre a good steady girl, my dear.
Your cousins are young and Im busy do you mind putting yourself out, for a couple of days, to keep an eye on things for me?
If theres anything I overlook, come and let me know before the old lady asks and Im stumped for an answer.
If the servants misbehave, just tell them off.
If they wont listen, let me know.
We dont want to have any trouble.
Baochai had to agree to this.
It was now early spring and Daiyu was coughing again while Xiangyun too was under the weather, confined to her bed in Alpinia Park, taking medicine day after day.
As Tanchun and Li Wan lived some distance from each other, now that they were working together it proved so inconvenient sending messages to and fro that they arranged to settle their business every morning in the small three-roomed hall south of the Garden gate.
They took to having breakfast there and returning to their own quarters about noon.
This hail had served as the headquarters for the eunuchs in charge at the time of the Imperial Consorts visit, since when it had only been used by some old maid-servants who kept watch there at night.
As the weather was warm now no major repairs were needed a little fixing up made the place fit for the two of them to use.
The tablet over this hall bore the inscription Assisting Benevolence and Discussing Virtue, but members of the household called it the Council Hall.
Now the two young mistresses came here at six every morning and did not leave until noon, after an endless stream of women-servants had reported on the matters entrusted to them.
These women had all exulted secretly at the news that Li Wan was to be in sole charge, thinking her too kind-hearted to punish anyone, and obviously much easier to impose on than Xifeng.
It did not worry them either when Tanchun later joined her, for they discounted her as a young unmarried girl who had always been most pleasant and easy-going.
So they became much slacker than before.
After only a few days, however, it dawned on them from the way certain matters were handled that Tanchun was every bit as alert as Xifeng, being simply more softspoken and even-tempered.
It happened now that a dozen or so promotions, demotions, marriages or funerals in the families of nobles or hereditary officials related to or friendly with the Rong and Ning houses kept Lady Wang busy for several days in a row, paying visits of congratulation or condolence.
This left her less time than ever to attend to affairs at home.
So Li Wan and Tanchun remained in the hall all day long, while Baochai supervised the servants in Lady Wangs apartments until her return and last thing at night, after doing some needlework, she would make a tour of the Garden in a small sedan-chair accompanied by those on watch.
Thus the three of them controlled things even more strictly than when Xifeng was in charge.
Were only just rid of one demon patrolling the sea, and here come three guardian mountain spirits instead!
all the servants started grousing secretly.
Weve not even a chance now to drink and play cards at night.
One day, Lady Wang was invited to a feast in the house of the Marquis of Jinxiang.
Li Wan and Tanchun rose early to attend her until she left, then went back to the hail.
They were sipping tea there when Wu Xindengs wife came in to inform them that Zhao Guoji, the brother of Concubine Zhao, had died the previous day.
I reported this yesterday to the mistress, she said.
She told me to let you ladies know.
She made no further comment after this, just stood by at respectful attention.
All the servants who had come to report on business were eager to see how these two would handle the matter.
If it was handled correctly they would respect them if the least mistake was made, not only would they despise them, once out of the inner gate they would start gossiping and making fun of them.
Mrs. Wu knew what should be done, and had she been dealing with Xifeng she would have made various suggestions to curry favour, quoting precedents for her to decide between.
But as she looked down on Li Wan as a simpleton and Tanchun as only a girl, she said no more, waiting to see what the two of them would do.
Tanchun consulted Li Wan, who thought for a moment.
The other day when Xirens mother died, I understand she was given forty taels, she said.
We can give the same amount.
Mrs. Wu promptly assented, took the tally and was about to go off when Tanchun stopped her.
Dont go for the money yet, said Tanchun.
Ive something to ask you.
Some of those old concubines in the old ladys apartments came from outside, some from families serving here.
There was a distinction.
If a relative of one from our household died, how much was given?
How much to one from outside?
Give us a couple of examples.
When questioned like this, Mrs. Wu could not remember.
It doesnt matter, she answered with a smile.
Whatever sums given, who would dare to complain?
Nonsense!
retorted Tanchun pleasantly.
I would just as soon give a hundred taels but if I didnt go by the rules, not only would you laugh at me but I shouldnt be able to face the Second Mistress.
In that case Ill go and look up the old accounts, offered Mrs. Wu.
I cant for the moment remember.
Youre an old hand at this, Tanchun pointed out.
Yet you claim to have forgotten, so as to make things awkward for us.
Do you have to go and look up the accounts when you report to the Second Mistress?
If so, Xifeng would count as lenient, not as exacting.
Fetch those accounts at once.
One more days delay, and instead of blaming you for negligence people will accuse us of incompetence.
Mrs. Wu flushed scarlet and hurried out, while the other stewards wives stuck out their tongues in dismay.
Then other matters were reported.
Soon Mrs. Wu came back with the old accounts.
Tanchun, taking them, found that two concubines who had been family servants had received twenty taels apiece, and two from outside forty.
Two others from outside had received a hundred taels and sixty taels respectively but it was recorded that this was because the first was allowed an extra sixty to have her parents coffins moved to another province the second was allowed an extra twenty to buy a burial ground.
Tanchun showed these items to Li Wan.
Give her twenty taels.
she ordered Mrs. Wu.
And leave these accounts here for us to go through carefully.
Mrs. Wu assented and withdrew.
Suddenly Concubine Zhao burst in.
Li Wan and Tanchun at once asked her to be seated.
Everyone in this house tramples on my head.
she stormed.
I should think you at least, miss, should take my side!
She began to sob and snivel as she was speaking.
Whom are you accusing, madam?
asked Tanchun.
I dont understand.
Whos trampling on your head?
If youll tell me, Ill take your side.
Youre the one so whom can I complain to?
Tanchun hastily rose to protest, I wouldnt dare.
Li Wan also stood up to act as a peacemaker.
Sit down, please, and listen to me!
cried the concubine.
Ive been treated like dirt in this house all these years, though Ive borne you and your brother, and now I rank even lower than Xiren.
What face have I got left?
Not only me this makes you lose face too.
So thats it.
Tanchun smiled.
As if I dared take the law into my own hands!
Sitting down again, she showed Concubine Zhao the account books and read out the items to her.
These are the rules handed down by our ancestors, she declared.
We all have to abide by them how could I change them?
Xiren isnt a special case.
If Huan takes a concubine from outside later on, shell naturally rank the same as Xiren.
This isnt a question of competing for status, it has nothing to do with face.
If someones in our mistress service, I can only go by the rules.
The sums given thanks to the kindness of our ancestors and our mistress.
If that someone thinks it unfair and is too stupid to know when shes well off, I cant stop her complaining.
If our mistress were to give away the whole house, Id get no face from it.
If she didnt give a cent, it wouldnt make me lose face either.
Take my advice and have a quiet rest while the mistress is out.
Why work yourself up?
The mistress is kindness itself to me, but youve grieved her more than once by the way you make trouble.
If I were a boy, able to leave this house, Id have gone long ago to make my own way in the world, for then of course Id know what to do.
Its too bad that Im only a girl and mustnt say a word out of turn.
The mistress fully understands, and thinks well enough of me to put me in charge but before Ive managed to be of any use you come and start picking on me.
If she found out and relieved me of the job so as not to embarrass me, then Id really lose face.
And so would you as well.
By this time she was sobbing bitterly.
The concubine having no other answer to this retorted, If the mistress is partial to you, thats all the more reason to lend us a helping hand.
But youve quite forgotten us in your eagerness to curry favour with her.
Who says Ive forgotten you?
How am Ito lend a helping hand?
You have to ask yourselves Dont all mistresses like inferiors who make themselves useful?
Good people dont need the kind offices of others.
Li Wan put in soothingly, Dont be angry, madam.
Its not her fault.
Shes only too eager to help you, but how can she say so?
Dont be ridiculous, sister-in-law!
cried Tanchun.
Who do you mean Im to help?
Does the daughter of any house help servants?
You should know what they are their affairs are none of my business.
Who asked you to help others?
fumed the concubine.
If you werent in charge I wouldnt have come to you.
Now if you say one its one, if you say two its two.
If you gave an extra twenty or thirty taels for your uncles funeral, why should the mistress object?
Everyone knows how good she is its you people who are so stingy.
Its too bad she has no chance to show her kindness.
But dont worry, miss, its not your own silver youre saving.
Id always hoped, after you married, youd show more consideration to the Zhao family but now before your feathers have grown youve forgotten your roots, youre so keen to fly to the very top of the tree.
Before she had finished, Tanchuns face was white with anger.
Nearly choking with sobs she demanded, Whos my uncle?
My uncles just been appointed Military Inspector of Nine Provinces.
What other uncles do I have?
Is this my reward for always observing the ruler of propriety to have all these relative foisted off on me?
If what you say were true, why did Zho Guoji have to stand up whenever Huan went out?
Why follow him to school?
Why didnt he behave like an uncle?
Do you have to make such a scene?
Everyone knows Im a child by a concubine, yet you needs must bring it up every few months and rub it in, as if you had to make it plain for fear they didnt know.
Whos making the other lose face?
Its lucky Ive sense enough to remember my manners, or youd have driven me frantic long ago!
Li Wan tried desperately to pacify them, but the concubine went on ranting.
She did not stop until it was announced Miss Pinger has come with a message from the Second Mistress.
Concubine Zhao greeted Pinger with a smile and urged her to take a seat.
Is your mistress better?
she asked.
Ive been meaning to call on her but havent yet found the time.
Li Wan asked Pinger her business.
The Second Mistress thought you ladies might not know what the usual allowance would be in connection with the death of Concubine Zhaos brother, answered Pinger.
The rule is to give only twenty taels, but its up to you to decide.
You can give more if you want.
Why make an exception in this case?
retorted Tanchun who had now dried her eyes.
Was he a prodigy who took twenty-four months to be born, or someone who saved his masters life in the army?
How clever your mistress is, wanting me to break the rules while she gets the credit, buying herself goodwill at our mistress expense!
Tell her I dont dare to increase or cut down amounts for no good reason.
If she wants to be charitable and add something, shell have to wait till shes better.
Pinger had sensed as soon as she came in that something was wrong.
After this tirade she grasped the situation.
And since Tanchun was glowering instead of replying with one of her usual jokes she waited there in a respectful silence.
At this point Baochai arrived too from Lady Wangs apartments.
Tanchun and the others rose to offer her a seat but before they could enter into conversation another woman came in to make her report.
And as Tanchuns face was tear-stained, three or four young maids brought in a basin, towels and a mirror with a handle.
One of them knelt before Tanchun, who was cross-legged on the couch, and held the basin out to her while two others knelt beside her with the towels, mirror and cosmetics.
Seeing that Daishu was not there to help, Pinger stepped forward to roll up Tanchuns sleeves, take off her bracelets, and drape a large towel over the front of her clothes.
Tanchun had just dipped her hands into the basin when the woman who had come in announced If you please, my ladies, the family school has sent for this years allowance for Master Huan and Master Lan.
Whats the hurry?
scolded Pinger.
Cant you see the young lady is washing?
You should wait outside, not come butting in like this.
Would you be so impertinent to the Second Mistress?
The young lady may be kind-hearted, but dont blame me if my mistress hears of this and your lack of respect gets you all into trouble.
How stupid of me!
cried the woman in dismay, then hastily left the room.
Tanchun, now powdering her face, smiled ironically at Pinger.
You came just too late to see something still more ridiculous, she said.
Even an old hand like Mrs. Wu came without checking up on her facts in order to trip us up.
When challenged, shed the nerve to say shed forgotten.
I asked if that was the way she reported to the Second Mistress.
I doubt whether that mistress of yours would put up with it.
If she tried that just once, I can promise you shed have her legs broken.
replied Pinger.
You cant trust these people an inch, miss.
Theyre trying to take advantage, because Madam Zhus a real Bodhisattva and youre such a gentle young lady.
Turning towards the door she called to the women outside, All right, just take all the liberties you like.
Wait till Madam Lians well again, and well settle scores with you!
The matrons outside answered, Youre most understanding, miss.
You know the saying If a man does wrong, he alone must take the blame.
We d never presume to deceive Miss Tanchun.
Wed deserve to die and go unburied if we provoked a delicate young lady like her.
So long as you know that, replied Pinger scornfully.
Then she turned with a smile to Tanchun.
You know how busy Madam Lian was, miss.
She couldnt cope with everything and is bound to have overlooked certain things.
As the proverb says, The spectator sees most of the sport.
As a detached observer all these years, you may have noticed cases where she failed to make suitable cuts or additions.
If youll set these right, youll first of all be helping the mistress in her work and showing your friendship for my lady as well... What a clever girl !
exclaimed Baochai and Li Wan, smiling, before Pinger could finish.
No wonder Xifeng is so attached to you.
Wed no intention of making any changes, but after what youve said we shall reconsider one or two cases to show our appreciation.
I was so furious I wanted to work off my feelings on her mistress.
Tanchun laughed.
But turning up and talking like this she has quite taken the wind out of my sails.
She called in the woman who had just come and asked her, What are these annual allowances for Master Huan and Master Lan for?
For a years refreshments at school and the remainder for stationery, was the reply.
Each gets eight taels of silver a year.
All the young masters expenses are covered by the monthly allowances for the different apartments, countered Tanchun.
Huans two taels a month are given to Concubine Zhao, Baoyus to the old ladys maid Xiren and Lans to Madam Zhus maid.
So why this extra eight taels for the school?
Do they go to school for the sake of this eight taels?
From now on this will be cancelled.
Tell your mistress this from me, Pinger, when you go back.
Say I think theres no need for it.
This should have been cut long ago, said the maid with a smile.
Last year my mistress did speak of doing it, but with all the bustle over New Year she forgot.
Then the matron had to assent and take herself off.
Now servants from Grand View Garden brought lunch hampers, and Pinger set out the dishes on the small table put ready by Daishu and Suyun.
You can go and attend to your business now that youve had your say, Tanchun told her.
You dont have to help out here.
Im free now.
replied Pinger, smiling.
The Second Mistress sent me partly to give you that message, partly to help the girls wait on you if I found you short-handed.
Wheres Miss Baochais lunch?
asked Tanchun.
Some girls hurried out to notify the matrons, Miss Baochais lunching here too.
Have her food brought over.
Hearing this Tanchun said loudly, Dont start ordering them about.
Theyre all the wives of chief stewards, not people you can send to fetch rice and tea!
Have you no manners?
Pinger has nothing to do here.
Let her go.
Pinger promptly agreed and went out.
The stewards wives quietly drew her aside and said, Theres no need for you to go, miss.
Weve already sent someone.
They dusted off the steps with their handkerchiefs and urged her to have a rest there in the sun after standing for so long.
As soon as she sat down, two women from the boiler house brought over a mattress.
That stones cold, miss, they said.
This is quite clean, do use it.
As she thanked them with a smile, someone else brought her a bowl of good freshly brewed tea.
This isnt our usual tea but some for the young ladies, she whispered.
Do try it.
Pinger inclined her head and accepted it.
Then wagging finger at them all she scolded, Youve really gone too far.
Shes only a girl and, quite properly, doesnt like to lose her temper but thats no reason why you should be rude to her.
If you really made her angry, at worst she could be blamed for flaring up but youd get into big trouble.
If she made a scene, even Lady Wang would have to humour her, and theres nothing the Second Mistress could do either.
How have you the nerve to slight her in that way?
Its like an egg dashing itself against a rock.
How dare we?
they protested.
It was all Concubine Zhaos fault.
Thats enough, my good women, whispered Pinger.
If a wall starts tottering, everyone gives it a shove.
Concubine Zhao does tend to turn things upside down, I grant you, but when theres trouble you put all the blame on her.
Ive seen for myself these years the airs you give yourselves and the tricks you play.
If the Second Mistress werent so able, you fine ladies would have got the upper hand of her long ago.
Every chance you get, you still try to land her in trouble.
Several times shes only just missed falling into your traps.
People say youre scarred of her because shes such a terror, Pinger continued.
But I who know her best can tell you shes afraid of you too.
Only the other day, we were saying things couldnt go on like this there were bound to be a couple of rumpuses.
Though Miss Tanchuns an unmarried young lady, youve all misjudged her.
Shes the only one of the young ladies that my mistress is half afraid of yet you think you can treat her any way you please!
They were interrupted by Qiuwens arrival.
All the matrons greeted her and urged her to rest for a while.
Theyre having lunch inside, they explained.
Youd better not go in till theyve finished.
What time have Ito wait?
retorted Qiuwen.
Im not like you.
She was walking in when Pinger called her back.
At sight of her Qiuwen smiled.
What are you doing here?
Acting as an extra bodyguard?
she asked, sitting down by her on the mattress.
What business brings you here?
asked Pinger softly.
We want to know when the monthly allowances for Baoyu and the rest of us will be issued.
Very important.
I must say!
Go back quickly and tell Xiren from me not to try to settle any business today.
Every single request you make will be refused.
Qiuwen asked the reason and all of them promptly told her.
Theyre looking for some big issues and someone who counts to make an example of as a warning to everyone, Pinger explained.
Why should you bump your head against this brick wall?
If you go in now, they can hardly make an example of you, out of deference to Their Ladyships but if they dont they may be accused of bias, of not daring to touch those backed by Their Ladyships and just picking on the weak instead.
Wait and see.
Theyre even countermanding a few of the Second Mistress rulings too thats their only way to stop gossip.
Qiuwen stuck out her tongue in dismay.
Thank goodness you came here.
Sister Pinger!
she cried.
Youve saved me from a snubbing.
Ill go straight back and tell them.
With that she left.
At this point Baochais meal arrived and Pinger sent in to seve her.
Concubine Zhao had now left and the three others were eating on the couch, Baochai facing south, Tanchun west and Li Wan east.
The matrons waited quietly outside on the verandah, none but personal serving-maids venturing to go in.
Wed better watch our step and not try anything on, said the matrons softly.
Mrs. Wu was went off with a flea in her ear, and do we have more face than she does?
They decided not to go in until lunch was over.
All was quiet now inside, with no clatter of bowls or chopsticks.
Presently a maid raised the portiere and two others carried out the table.
Three girls from the boiler house had brought three basins of water, and as soon as the table was removed they went in, reappearing before long with the basins and rinse-bowls.
Then Daishu, Suyun and Yinger took in three covered bowls of tea on trays.
When these three came out again Daishu instructed the younger maids, You must see to things here till we come back from our meal.
Dont sneak off to have a rest.
Then, slowly, the matrons made their reports in turn, not presuming to behave with their previous impertinence.
Tanchun, somewhat mollified, remarked to Pinger.
Ive just happened to remember something important Ive been meaning to discuss with your mistress.
Come back straight after your meal, will you?
As Miss Baochai is here too, the four of us can talk it over before asking your mistress whether she agrees or not.
Pinger assented and left.
Why were you away so long?
asked Xifeng on her return.
Pinger gave her a detailed account of all that had happened.
Splendid!
Good for Tanchun!
Xifeng smiled.
What did I always say?
Its too bad she wasnt fated to be the mistress own daughter.
So you, too, talk nonsense, dear madam!
retorted Pinger.
She may not be the mistress own child, but everyone has to show her the same respect as the other daughters of the house.
You dont understand.
Xifeng sighed.
Though we may say theyre the same, a girl cant compare with a boy.
When the time comes to arrange her marriage, some foolish people will first ask whether shes the daughter of the wife or of a concubine, and most likely refuse her in the second case.
Although, not to mention a concubines child, even one of the maids in our family is better than the daughters of other households.
Some unlucky family may lose an excellent daughter-in-law by insisting on the wifes daughter, and some lucky one may do well by not being so choosy.
She changed the subject then, continuing, You know how hard Ive tried to save money these last few years, which must have made the whole household secretly curse me.
Im riding on a tigers back, and though Im not clamping down too strictly at present I cant let everything slide.
Besides, our expenses have increased while our incomes dwindled yet we still have to manage all affairs large and small according to the ancestors old rules, in spite of less money coming in every year.
If I economize too much, outsiders may jeer and Their Ladyships will feel the pinch, while the rest of the household complain of my stinginess.
On the other hand, if I dont devise ways to save money in good time, another few years may see us bankrupted.
Thats very true, agreed Pinger.
And theres big expenditure still to come with the marriages of three or four young ladies and two or three young masters, as well as the Old Ancestress funeral.
Ive taken those into account.
Weve enough for that.
The marriages of Baoyu and Daiyu wont cost the estate anything, as the old lady will pay for them herself.
We can count Yingchun out too, as she belongs to the Elder Masters side.
That leaves Tanchun and Xichun, who will require ten thousand taels each at the most.
Huans marriage shouldnt cost more than three thousand, which we can raise easily by cutting down on other expenses.
As for the old ladys funeral, all the preparations have already been made, and sundry minor expenses will amount at most to another four or five thousand.
So if we economize now we should do all right.
Its only the possibility of some unforeseen expenses that makes me anxious, for then wed really be in serious trouble.
Still, its no use worrying now.
Hurry up and have your meal, then go back to hear what theyre discussing.
This is just the chance I wanted it worried me that I had no assistant.
Although theres Baoyu, hes not cut out for the job even if I win him to my side hes not much use.
Madam Zhus too saintly to be of any use either.
And Yingchuns even worse, apart from the fact that she doesnt belong to our house.
Xiehuns still too young Lans even younger.
As for Huan, hes like a kitten half perished with cold, always looking for a stove or heated kang to creep under and get his hair singed.
It really and truly passes my understanding how one mother could bear two such utterly different children!
Daiyu and Baochai, now, are both good girls but not being daughters of our family they cant very well mind our affairs.
Besides, ones a lovely paper lantern which a puff of wind will blow out and its no use asking the other anything, as shes made up her mind not to open her mouth about matters that dont concern her, but to shake her head in answer to all questions.
That leaves only Tanchun, whos quick in the uptake with a ready tongue, a daughter of the house and a favourite with the mistress she just doesnt show it because of the trouble made by that old bitch Concubine Zhao, but at heart shes as fond of her as of Baoyu.
Tanchuns totally different from Huan, whom nobody could like.
If I had my way, hed have been thrown out long ago.
Now that shes made this proposal, we should co-operate and help each other then I wont be on my own any longer.
From the point of view of whats fair and right, a helper like her will save us worry and make the mistress task so much easier.
From a selfish point of view, Ive made myself so unpopular that its time for me to back down and look about me because if I go on being so strict I shall get myself thoroughly hated, and everybodys smiles will hide daggers!
You and I have only four eyes and two brains between us if they once catch us off guard they can do for us.
We must make the most of this chance.
So long as shes in charge, theyll forget their past grudges against us for the time being.
And theres another thing I must tell you, as you may not have spotted it for all youre so smart.
Young as Tanchun is shes no fool, only careful how she talks.
In fact, with her book-learning, shes smarter than I am.
She must know the saying To catch rebels first catch the chief.
So to set an example shes bound to start with me.
If she reverses any of my decision, dont argue with her but back her up, the more respectfully the better.
On no account protest for feat I lose face.
Long before the end of this speech Pinger was smiling.
What do you take me for a fool?
she retorted.
Thats what Ive been doing, and here you are warning me.
I was afraid youd forget other people in your concern for me, thats why.
If thats what youve been doing, it shows youve more sense than I have.
Dont get so worked up, though, that you forget yourself and whom youre talking to.
Thats my way, countered Pinger.
If you dont like it you can slap my face again.
It wont be the first time.
You bitch!
Xifeng laughed.
How many times do you have to harp on that?
Why be so provoking when you can see Im ill?
Come and sit down.
As were all on our own lets have our meal together.
Fenger and three or four other young maids came in then with a small table, which they set on the kang.
Xifeng ate nothing but some birds-nest gruel and two tasty side-dishes, having cancelled her usual food for the time being.
Fenger set Pingers normal four dishes before her and helped her to rice.
Then Pinger, half kneeling on the kang and half standing, accompanied her mistress.
The meal at an end, she helped Xifeng wash and tinse her mouth.
Then, having given Fenger some instructions, she went back to rejoin Tanchun.
But she found the courtyard quiet and deserted.
To know the reason, read the following chapter.
Chapter 56 Clever Tanchun Devises a Scheme to Make a Profit and End Abuses Understanding Baochai Rounds It Out with a Small Act of Kindness After eating with Xifeng and waiting on her while she washed and then rinsed her mouth, Pinger went back to Tanchun.
She found the Council Hall quiet, with a few maids and matrons waiting outside the windows.
As she walked in, the three cousins were discussing family affairs and had just brought up the subject of Lai Das garden, where they had feasted shortly before New Year.
Tanchun offered Pinger a foot-stool.
Heres what I was thinking, she told her.
In addition to our monthly allowance of two taels, our maids have separate allowances but a few days ago someone reported that each of us gets an extra two taels a month for hair-oil, rouge and powder.
This is like that extra allowance of eight taels for the school just now another duplication.
Admittedly its a small matter, involving very little money, but it doesnt seem right.
Why hasnt this occurred to your mistress?
Theres a reason, answered Pinger.
Of course the young ladies should be provided with cosmetics every month, and theyre bought by the stewards in charge, then delivered by the matrons to us in the different apartments to be kept ready for when the young ladies need them.
Thats to save us the trouble of having to send out all the time to buy them.
So the stewards get the lump sum for this item, and distribute the cosmetics each month to the different apartments.
As for the monthly allowance of two taels, that was never meant for this purpose.
It was so that you dont have to search for the mistresses in charge, if theyre away or too busy to be bothered when you happen to need a little money.
In other words, to see that you dont go short.
That money obviously isnt meant for cosmetics.
But Ive noticed that at least half our sisters attending in the different apartments make these purchases with their own money.
I suspect its because the stewards arent supplying them on time, or because what they buy is of a poor quality.
So youve noticed that too.
Tanchun and Li Wan smiled.
The stewards supply us all right, they wouldnt dare stop, but always a few days late.
When we hurry them they produce something inferior, goodness knows from where, which we can never use.
We still have to buy our own with those two taels.
We have to ask the sons of other peoples nurses or brothers to do this they get us what we want.
But if we send those servants in charge, they buy the same kind, we cant imagine why.
Could it be that they just buy us shop-soiled rejects?
Pinger smiled.
If the stewards get you that kind and they were to buy something better, of course the stewards would be annoyed and accuse them of trying to do them out of a job, she explained.
Thats why they have to do this.
Theyd rather offend you ladies than the stewards.
But when you send your nurses, no one can complain.
Its been worrying me, put in Tanchun, because we spend two lots of money but half the purchases are wasted.
That means were spending twice as much as we should.
So my first proposal is to stop that monthly allowance to the stewards.
Ive another idea too.
You went with us to Lai Das house before New Year.
How did you think his small garden compared with ours?
Its less than half the size and has far fewer trees and flowers.
I had a chat with one of their grils, continued Tanchun.
I learned to my surprise that its annual produce apart from the flowers they wear and the bamboo shoots, vegetables, fish and prawns they eat has been contracted for by people who pay them at least two hundred taels a year.
That was how I first learned that even a snapped lotus leaf or a blade of withered grass is worth money.
Truly spoken like a rich young dandy!
laughed Baochai.
Though sheltered young ladies know nothing about such things, in the course of your studies youve surely read Zhu Xis essay On Not Debasing Oneself ?
Of course I have.
Just a lot of exhortations and empty talk, I call it.
Such things cant really happen.
So even Zhu Xis writings are empty talk, are they?
retorted Baochai.
No, every word there is true.
After just two days of managing affairs youve become so mercenary that you accuse Zhu Xi of empty talk!
I suppose if you worked outside, where youd profit more by cutting down bigger expenses, youd bring the same accusation against even Confucius!
Well-read as you are, countered Tanchun, havent you read Jizi ?
2 Jizi said, Those in a position to seek profit and emolument, or responsible for planning and calculating, may talk like Yao and Shun but disobey the precepts of Confucius and Mencius.
Baochai smiled as Tanchun broke off and urged, Go on.
Thats all I want to quote.
Why should I go on to make fun of myself?
Theres nothing useless in this world, and when something has a use its worth money.
Id have thought, where a serious matter like this is concerned, you had sense enough to grasp such a self-evident truth.
You call us here, put in Li Wan, but instead of talking business the two of you just carry on an academic discussion.
This academic discussion has a bearing on our business, replied Baochai.
If our small tasks arent guided by principles, theyll get out of hand and sink to the vulgar level of the market-place.
After this joking they got down to business.
Tanchun reverting to her earlier question said, If we consider our Garden just twice the size of theirs, it should bring in double the profit four hundred taels a year.
Of course, it would be petty and unworthy of our family to concentrate solely now on making money.
But if a couple of women are assigned to take charge, all the valuable things here wont be squandered its a shame to let them go to waste.
Better choose a few of the most reliable old women here who know something about gardening, and let them see to things.
We neednt charge them or ask for any rent if they send in some presents every year.
In the first place, with people in charge of the flowers and trees, the Garden will naturally improve as time goes on and we shant be called on for sudden emergency measures.
In the second place, therell be no waste either.
In the third, the old women wont be working hard all year for nothing, but will have a few perks.
In the fourth, what we save on the gardeners and cleaners pay can be spent on improvements and repairs.
Hows that?
Very good!
Baochai, who was standing looking at the scrolls on the walls, nodded approvingly.
Within three years an end will be put to famine.
Thats an excellent idea.
approved Li Wan too.
If we do this the mistress is sure to be pleased.
Saving money isnt the main thing, but we shall need fewer cleaners too.
If there are people in charge of the Gardens upkeep who are allowed to make something on the side, given the authority and a profit incentive theyre bound to do their best.
This proposal had to come from you, miss, remarked Pinger.
My mistress had the same idea, but she could hardly suggest it with all you young ladies living in the Garden.
Instead of improving the place, how could she propose putting people in charge to save money?
Baochai stepped up to her and patted her cheek.
Open your mouth and let me see what your teeth and tongue are made of!
she cried.
From first thing this morning till now youve done so much talking, and youve a different argument each time.
You neither praise Miss Tanchun to her face nor admit that your mistress ever overlooks anything, not do you agree to whatever Miss Tanchun says but each time she makes some proposal you have your answer pat the same idea occurred to your mistress, too, but there was always some reason why she couldnt suggest it.
Now youre saying that because we live here she couldnt put people in charge so as to save money.
Cant you two see what that means?
If we really let people make money out of the Garden, they naturally wont want anyone to pick a single flower or fruit.
Of course they wont dare deny us, but theyll be quarrelling all the time with our maids.
How farsighted and circumspect Pinger is!
She neither argues back nor flatters you.
If her mistress werent good to us, as in fact she is, hearing Pinger talk like this would surely make her repent and mend her ways.
I was in a bad temper this morning, said Tanchun.
When I heard she d come I suddenly thought of her mistress and of how insubordinate all the servants have grown under her management.
So the sight of Pinger made me even angrier.
But she came in like a mouse shrinking from a cat, and looked so pathetic all the time she stood there and then the way she talked!
Instead of reminding me how good her mistress is to me, she spoke of my consideration for her mistress.
That not only stopped me being angry but made me so ashamed I felt like crying.
I thought a girl like myself, whos reduced to such a state that nobody cares for me what can I do for anyone else?
At this point she broke down again and wept.
Her distress reminded Li Wan and the others of all the instances of Concubine Zhaos outrageous behaviour, which had involved Tanchun, making her embarrassed to face Lady Wang.
They could not help shedding tears of sympathy.
Dont talk like that, they urged.
What does it matter?
Now that were free, lets work out a couple of ways to make a profit and get rid of past abuses, so as to prove ourselves worthy of the mistress trust.
I understand, put in Pinger hastily.
Just trust this business to some reliable people of your own choosing, miss, and that will be that.
Thats all very well, but we must consult your mistress first, insisted Tanchun.
Weve already overstepped our authority, scrimping and scraping, right and left, and I wouldnt suggest this if she werent so understanding.
If she were officious or spiteful, Id never have dreamed of it either it would look as if I were trying to show her up.
We certainly must consult her.
In that case Ill go and tell her, said Pinger, and with that she went off.
After a while she came back to tell them gaily, I said there was no need to go.
Its such a good idea, of course my mistress approves.
Then Tanchun and Li Wan asked for a list of the names of all the elderly women in the Garden, and after some discussion made a tentative choice of a few.
These women summoned and told the plan in outline by Li Wan, agreed to it readily.
Just leave that bamboo plot to me, said one.
In a years time therell be another plot.
Then, apart from supplying the household with bamboo shoots, I can hand in some money too.
Another said, Let me have the paddy fields.
I can keep all the pet birds, big and small, supplied with grain the whole year round without asking the stewards for any, and pay something over and above that too.
Before Tanchun could reply, it was announced that a doctor had come to the Garden to see a young lady, and the matrons should go to escort him in.
Even if a hundred of you were to go to meet the doctor it wouldnt look proper, objected Pinger.
Surely there are chief stewards wives to take him in?
Yes, Mrs. Wu and Mrs. Shan, the messenger answered.
Theyre waiting in the southwest corner by the Gate of Embroidery.
Then Pinger let the matter drop.
And as soon as the women had gone Tanchun asked Baochai her opinion.
One who is zealous at the start may grow lax before the finish, quoted Baochai smiling.
Fine speech may hide a hankering after profit.
Tanchun nodded her agreement, then selected a few more names from the list for the other threes consideration, whereupon Pinger fetched a brush and inkstone.
Mrs. Zhu is a reliable old soul, they said.
Besides, her husband and son have always looked after bamboos, so we may as well put all the bamboos here in her care.
And then theres old Mrs. Tian who comes from a farming family.
The paddy fields and vegetable plots in Paddy-Sweet Cottage are only for fun and dont need to be cultivated seriously still, it would be better to have her there in charge during the different seasons.
What a pity theres nothing we can turn to profit in Happy Red Court and Alpinia Park, large as they both are.
remarked Tanchun.
Why, Alpinia Parks even better, declared Li Wan.
Isnt it full of the spices and herbs you find sold by perfumers, as well as at all the big markets and temple fairs?
I reckon those will bring in the biggest profit of the lot.
As for Happy Red Court, not to mention anything else, just think how many roses it has all spring and summer.
That fence there is covered with rambler roses and monthly-roses, as well as honeysuckle and other flowers, all of which fetch a good price in tea-shops and pharmacies when theyre dried.
Is that so?
asked Tanchun with a smile.
Were no one, though, who understands such things.
The mother of Yinger who works for Miss Baochai does.
Pinger informed them.
Have you forgotten that time she gathered and dried some sprigs to make me baskets?
Ive just been singing your praises, yet now youre laying a trap for me, protested Baochai jokingly.
What do you mean?
asked the other three in surprise.
This is out of the question, she answered.
All your attendants here with nothing to do will certainly think badly of me if I bring in someone else.
Let me suggest another woman instead Mingyans mother, old Mrs. Ye, in Happy Red Court.
Shes an honest old soul and on good terms with Yingers mother.
You may as well entrust this to her.
If theres something she doesnt understand, we shant have to tell her to consult Yingers mother, she may even leave the whole job to her thats up to them.
But if anyone gossips it wont be our concern.
Handled this way it will look fair and the work will be properly done.
Pinger and Li Wan approved but Tanchun teased, Im only afraid they may forget friendship for profit!
Not they, Pinger assured her.
Only the other day Yinger became Mrs.
Yes god-daughter and they had a feast to celebrate.
Those two families are on the best of terms.
Then Tanchun made no further objection.
By the time they had settled on a few other women who had won their approval, and marked their names on the list, the matrons returned to report that the doctor had gone and showed them his prescription.
Having examined it, the three young ladies sent for the ingredients and ordered them to be prepared.
Tanchun and Li Wan then informed the women of the places entrusted to them.
Apart from what its decided the household requires, all the rest of the years produce will be yours, announced Li Wan.
And you must present an account at the end of the year.
Ive thought of something else, put in Tanchun.
If the accounts are made up at the end of the year and you take the money to the accountants office in the usual way, therell be someone again in control of you.
Youll still be in their clutches, and theyll be able to fleece you.
As this is our idea and weve bypassed them by entrusting the work to you, theyll resent it even if they dont say so outright thus theyre bound to squeeze you if you go to them to settle your annual accounts.
Why, every year the steward managing each property or estate gets one-third of the proceeds.
Thats how its always been its an open secret.
Thats apart from what else they filch.
Our new management of the Garden shouldnt go through their hands at all.
So come to us at the end of the year to settle your accounts.
I dont think accounts need be turned in at all, said Baochai.
Comparisons are so invidious.
Better let the woman entrusted with one job be responsible for the expenses of that place.
Ive worked it out and it doesnt come to much, just whats needed for hair-oil, rouge, powder, scent and toilet-paper for the young mistresses and their maids, as well as for brooms, dustpans, dusters and whisks and food for the poultry, pet birds, deer and rabbits.
If they take care of these few items, we neednt draw anything from the accountants office.
Think how much we can save that way.
These items may be small, agreed Pinger, yet the total saving in a year will amount to more than four hundred taels of silver.
There you are!
rejoined Baochai.
Four hundred a year, eight hundred in two years enough to buy a few more houses to rent and a few mu of not too good land.
Therell be more than that, of course but after working hard for a whole year they should keep some back for themselves.
Although our aim is to economize and make a profit, we mustnt be too stingy either.
If we saved an extra two or three hundred taels but spoiled our reputation, that wouldnt do.
In this way, though, the accountants office can spend four or five hundred less on us each year without anyone feeling the pinch the people here will benefit, as these women with no special means of livelihood will manage more comfortably the plants in the Garden will do better from year to year youll be more adequately supplied with what you need and no loss of dignity will be involved.
If all we wanted was to economize, of course we could save money and stash all our profits away but then everyone would start complaining, and that would impair the dignity of a family such as yours.
Now there are several dozen old married women in the Garden.
If we just give jobs to these few, the rest are bound to feel it unfair.
For them simply to supply those few items, as I suggested, is letting them off too lightly.
On top of that I think they should also give a few strings of cash each every year, regardless of how much they have left and this combined sum can be distributed to the other nannies in the Garden.
After all, even if they have no special assignments they work here day and night from early to late, running errands and locking or unlocking gates, no matter how bad the weather.
They carry the young ladies sedan-chairs, punt boats, and draw sleighs in winter in fact, they do all the hard work the whole year round in the Garden.
So they should have a small share in the profits too.
Theres another small thing, and Ill put it more bluntly.
If you just better yourselves without letting the others share in your good fortune, even if they dont complain openly theyre bound to feel resentful and then if they pick more fruit or flowers ostensibly for their mistresses but actually for themselves, therell be nobody to whom you can complain.
But if they benefit too, they can keep an eye on things for you when youre busy.
The women were delighted with this proposal, which meant they would neither be controlled by the stewards nor have to settle accounts with Xifeng all they needed to do was to pay a few extra strings of cash every year.
That suits us!
they cried.
This is better than being squeezed by those stewards outside and having to pay them.
Those with no special assignments were also pleased to learn that they would be getting something for nothing.
If they do the hard work they deserve to make a little money, they said.
How can we sit idle and rake in a profit too?
You nannies neednt decline, replied Baochai with a smile.
This is as it should be.
Just work hard and dont slack or allow any gambling or drinking.
This is really none of my business but, as you know, my aunt has urged me repeatedly to help out now that Madam Zhus so busy and my other cousins are still young.
I dont like to add to her worries by refusing.
Besides, your Second Mistress has poor health and is busy with family affairs, while Ive nothing to do.
Why, even a neighbour should help out, not to say a niece like myself when specially asked.
So I have to overcome my scruples and not mind if everyone thinks me a nuisance.
If all I cared about was my own reputation while other people made trouble drinking or gambling, how could I face my aunt?
Youd be sorry too, then, and lose face yourselves.
Youre looking after all these young ladies and this big Garden because its acknowledged that youre the steadiest, most reliable old nannies whose families have served here for three or four generations.
So you should behave in a fit and proper way.
If my aunt hears youve been giving people a free hand to drink and gamble, she may take you to task whereas if those stewards wives learn of it they may lecture you without telling my aunt, and youll find yourselves being scolded by your juniors!
Though theyre stewards and in charge, how much better to stand on your dignity and not give them a chance to sneer.
Thats why Ive suggested this bonus for you, so that all of you will work together to take good care of this Garden.
When those in charge see you behaving in a serious, responsible way, they wont have to worry about things and will respect you.
Its gratifying for us, too, having thought of a way for you to earn a bonus.
While you seize power from them and profit yourselves, youll also be helping to do away with waste and spare them worry.
Think it over carefully.
Youre quite right, miss, cried the women jubilantly.
Set your minds at rest, young ladies and madam.
If we dont show our gratitude for your goodness, may Heaven and Earth condemn us!
They were interrupted by the arrival of Lin Zhixiaos wife.
The ladies of the Zhen family from south of the Yangzi arrived in the capital yesterday, she announced.
Theyve gone to the Palace today to pay homage, sending some servants here with gifts and their respects.
Tanchun took the list of presents from her and read -778 twelve rolls of first-grade Imperial brocade with the serpent design twelve rolls of different colours for the Imperial use twelve rolls of Imperial gauze in different colours twelve rolls of Imperial silk -1012 twenty-four rolls of satin, gauze and silk in different colours for official use.
Li Wan also looked at the list, then ordered the bringers of these gifts to be rewarded with the first-grade tip, and sent to inform the Lady Dowager.
The latter summoned Li Wan, Tanchun and Baochai to her quarters to examine the presents, which Li Wan then had put aside, telling the servant in charge of the storeroom not to store them away until Lady Wang had seen them.
The Zhens are different from other families, observed the Lady Dowager.
It was right to give their men-servants the first-grade tip.
I expect they will lose no time in sending some women to pay their respects as well.
We must have some dress materials ready for them.
That same instant, sure enough, it was announced that four serving-women from the Zhen family had come to pay their respects.
The old lady ordered them to be admitted.
These women were all over forty and dressed not very differently from their mistresses.
As soon as they had paid their respects the Lady Dowager had four foot-stools brought, and with murmured thanks they seated themselves after Baochai and the rest had resumed their seats.
When did you come to the capital?
asked the old lady.
We arrived yesterday, the women stood up to reply.
Today our mistress has taken our young lady to the Palace to pay homage.
She first told us to come and pay our respects to you, madam, and to ask after the young ladies.
Its so long since your last visit, we werent expecting you this year.
Yes, this year we were sent for by the Emperor.
Has the whole family come?
Not the old lady, the young master, the two other young ladies or the other mistresses.
Only our mistress and our third young lady.
Is she engaged yet?
Not yet.
Your first and second young ladies families are on close terms with ours.
Yes, every year when they write home they say how exceedingly good you are to them, madam.
Not a bit of it!
The Lady Dowager smiled.
Thats how it should be with old family friends and relatives.
We see most of your second young lady, whos so very good and modest.
Youre too kind, madam, they replied.
Then she asked, Does your young master stay with your old lady?
Yes, madam, he does.
How old is he?
Has he started school yet?
Hes thirteen this year was the answer.
Such a handsome boy that our old lady dotes on him.
Hes always been very naughty and plays truant every day, but the master and the mistress couldnt be too strict with him.
Its just the same in our family.
Whats your young masters name?
Because the old lady treasures him so, and he has a fair complexion, she calls him Baoyu.
The Lady Dowager exclaimed to Li Wan, Another Baoyu fancy that!
Li Wan half rose to reply, There have been many people with the same names since ancient times, some living in the same, some in different ages.
After he was given this pet-name we did all of us, high and low, wonder whether some friend or relative didnt have the same name, volunteered one of the women.
But after some ten years away from the capital, we could none of us remember.
Thats my worthless grandsons name, chuckled the Lady Dowager.
She called in her attendants and ordered them, Go and fetch our Baoyu from the Garden, so that these good women can have a look at him and see how he compares with their Baoyu.
The maids went off at once, returning presently with Baoyu, at sight of whom the four women rose to their feet.
Well, this is a surprise!
they exclaimed.
If wed met him anywhere else but here, wed have thought our Baoyu had followed us to the capital.
They went up to Baoyu, who greeted them with a smile, and taking his hand they asked him a number of questions.
How does he compare with your boy?
inquired the old lady.
Judging by what these four nannies just said, the two must look rather alike, put in Li Wan.
Thats no coincidence.
rejoined the old lady.
If their faces arent disfigured in some way, the pampered sons of great houses all look rather handsome.
Theres nothing strange about that.
Theyre the image of each other, declared the four women.
And judging by what you say, madam, both of them have been rather spoilt but your young master seems to us the better-tempered of the two.
-408 Why do you say that?
We found out by holding his hands just now.
Ours would have thought us silly.
We re not allowed even to touch his things, let alone hold his hands.
So all his maids are young ones.
This evoked a peal of laughter from Li Wan and the girls.
If we sent people to see your Baoyu, and they took his hand, hed have to put up with it too, chuckled the old lady.
The thing about boys from families like ours is that, no matter how perverse they may be, they always behave correctly to visitors otherwise we would never let them be so naughty.
We spoil our boy because he looks so engaging, and because his manners to visitors are even better than those of many grownups.
Thats why nobody can help being fond of him and why he has his own way so often at home.
If he behaved badly to outsiders too, making us lose face, then no matter how handsome he was hed deserve to be beaten to death.
You are quite right, madam, they replied cheerfully.
Thought our Baoyu is so naughty and so wayward, his manners to guests are better than most grown-ups.
So everybody takes a fancy to him and cant understand why he should sometimes be beaten.
They dont know the way he runs wild at home, saying and doing the most outrageous things which make our master and mistress very angry.
Its natural for boys of noble families to be wilful, extravagant and lazy such faults can be corrected.
But what can we do when he was born with such a strange cranky temper?
As they were talking Lady Wang was announced.
She came in to inquire after her mother-in-law, and when the four visitors had paid their respects to her and said a few words the old lady told her to go and rest.
This Lady Wang did, having first served her with tea.
She was followed by the four women when they had taken their leave of the old lady, and they chatted together for a while about family affairs before she sent them away.
But enough of this.
Meanwhile the Lady Dowager was gleefully telling everyone who came in that another family had a Baoyu just like their own.
The others thought little of it, supposing that many official families must use the same names and that it was the general rule, rather than the exception, for a grandmother to spoil her grandson.
Only Baoyu, being a prejudiced simpleton, imagined that the four women had made this up to please his grandmother.
He went back to the Garden to see how Xiangyun was.
Now you can be as naughty as you like, she teased.
Before this it was a case of A single thread cant make a cord nor a single tree a forest.
But now that there are two of you, next time youre beaten for raising a rumpus you can run away to Nanjing to find your double.
Dont believe such nonsense, he said.
How could there be another Baoyu?
Wasnt there a Lin Xiangru in the Warring States Period and a Sima Xiangru in the Han Dynasty?
she retorted.
All right, Ill grant you that.
But two people cant possibly look just alike.
Didnt the men of Kuang take Confucius for Yang Hu?
Confucius and Yang Hu looked alike but had different names Lin Xiangru and Sima Xiangru had the same name but looked different.
How can I look the same and have the same name as someone else?
Unable to refute him Xiangyun said, Youre just quibbling, I refuse to argue with you.
Whether its so or not, this has nothing to do with me.
Then she lay down to sleep.
Baoyu stared reflecting dubiously, I may say this cant be, yet I feel all the same its true.
Yet how can I be sure, when I havent seen my double with my own eyes?
Feeling at a loss, he went back to his room and lay down on the couch to think.
Soon he dozed off and dreamed he was in a garden.
Is there another garden like this apart from our Grand View Garden?
he exclaimed in surprise.
As he was puzzling over this some girls all serving-maids approached.
Again he exclaimed in surprise, So Yuanyang, Xiren and Pinger arent the only fine girls!
What is Baoyu doing here?
the girls asked each other.
Assuming that they were talking about him he answered with a smile, I happened to stroll in here, not that I know which of my familys friends this garden belongs to.
Will you show me round it, sisters?
Why, this isnt our Baoyu, cried the girls.
Hes not bad-looking though, and soft-spoken too.
Do you have another Baoyu here, sisters?
he asked.
It was the old lady and mistress who told us to call him Baoyu, so as to make him live longer and keep him out of danger, they said.
He likes it when we call him by his name.
But how can a stinking young upstart from far away like you start using it at random?
Youd better watch out or well beat you to a pulp, you filthy lout!
Lets go before Baoyu sees him, urged another.
Hed think talking to this stinking wretch had made us stink too.
With that they left.
Why should they insult me like this?
wondered Baoyu.
Ive never been treated in such a way before.
Can I really have a double?
Occupied with these thoughts he had wandered into a courtyard.
Why, this is another Happy Red Court!
he marvelled.
He ascended the steps and walked in.
There was someone lying on a couch inside, with a few girls by him sewing or amusing themselves.
The young man on the couch sighed.
Why dont you sleep, Baoyu, instead of sighing?
asked one of the girls.
I suppose its your cousins illness thats worrying you?
As Baoyu marvelled at this the young man replied, I didnt believe the old lady when she told me that in the capital theres another Baoyu whose characters just like mine.
Just now, though, I had a dream.
I dreamed I was in a big garden in the capital, where I met some girls who called me a stinking wretch and refused to talk to me.
When at last I found his rooms he was asleep.
Only his empty form was there his real self had gone, I dont know where.
Baoyu hearing this interjected hastily, I came here to find Baoyu.
So youre Baoyu!
The other stepped down from the couch and caught hold of him.
So youre Baoyu!
he cried.
This isnt a dream then.
Of course not.
Its absolutely true.
As he said this someone announced, The master wants Baoyu.
That threw both of them into a panic.
One started out while the other called Baoyu, come back!
Come back!
Xiren nearby heard him calling out in his sleep and shook him to wake him up.
Wheres Baoyu?
she asked.
Baoyu, although awake now, was still confused.
Pointing outside the door he answered, Hes just left.
Youve been dreaming, Xiren told him with a smile.
Rub your eyes and look thats your own reflection in the mirror.
When Baoyu saw that he was indeed looking at himself in the big mirror, he also smiled.
By now some maids had brought him a rinse-bowl and some strong tea to rinse his mouth.
Sheyue remarked, No wonder the old lady keeps warning us, There mustnt be too many mirrors in childrens rooms.
A young persons spirit is weak, and if he looks at himself too much in the glass he may be frightened in his sleep and have nightmares.
Yet weve put his couch in front of this big mirror.
Its all right when the covers down, but now that the hot weathers made us sleepy we keep forgetting to lower it.
Just now, for instance, we forgot again.
He must have been lying there amusing himself by looking at his own reflection then as soon as he closed his eyes he started dreaming foolish dreams.
Otherwise he wouldnt have called out his own name.
Tomorrow wed better move the couch inside.
She was interrupted by the arrival of a messenger from Lady Wang to fetch Baoyu.
To know why she wanted him, read the next chapter.
Chapter 57 Artful Zijuan Tests Baoyus Feelings Kindly Aunt Xue Comforts Daiyu Baoyu hurried to his mother as soon as summoned, to find that she wanted to take him to call on Lady Zhen.
Naturally delighted to go, he changed his clothes hurriedly and accompanied her.
The Zhens house struck him as much like the Rong and Ning mansions, if not slightly grander, and by making careful inquiries he learned that they did indeed have a young master called Baoyu.
By the time they has spent the day there, for Lady Zhen kept them to a meal, he was quite convinced of this.
On their return that evening Lady Wang ordered a sumptuous feast to be prepared and a celebrated opera company hired to entertain Lady Zhen and her daughter, who two days later set off for Nanjing without any further leave-taking.
One day, having seen that Xiangyun was on the road to recovery, Baoyu went to call on Daiyu.
She was taking a siesta, and not wishing to disturb her hes joined Zijuan who was sewing on the verandah.
Was her cough any better last night?
he asked.
A little.
Amida Buddha!
I do hope she soon gets well.
Really, this is news to me!
Since when have you started invoking Buddha?
she teased.
Men at deaths door will turn in desperation to any doctor, he quipped.
Noticing that she was wearing a thin padded silk tunic with black dots under a lined blue silk sleeveless jacket, he reached out to feel her clothes.
You shouldnt sit in the wind so lightly dressed, he remarked.
If you fall ill too in this treacherous early spring weather, it will be even worse.
When we talk to each other in future kindly keep your hands to yourself, retorted Zijuan.
Youre growing up now and should want people to respect you, but you keep provoking those wretches to gossip behind your back.
Youre so careless, you still carry on like a little boy.
Well, that wont do.
Our young ladys warned us many a time not to joke with you.
Havent you noticed recently how shes been avoiding you?
She got up then and took her needlework inside.
Baoyu felt as if doused by a bucket of cold water.
He was staring blankly at the bamboo grove when Mrs. Zhu came to dig up some bamboo shoots and trim the bamboos.
Then, stupefied, he went away.
Presently, his wits wandering, not knowing what he did, he sank down in a daze on a rock and shed tears.
For the time half a dozen meals would take he sat there brooding, but could not think what to do.
It so happened that Xueyan passed here now on her way back from Lady Wangs quarters with some ginseng.
Turning her head towards the rock below the peach tree she noticed someone sitting there lost in thought, his face propped on his hands.
To her surprise she saw it was Baoyu.
Whats he doing here all alone on such a chilly day?
she wondered.
Springs a dangerous time for people in delicate health.
Can his wits be wandering again?
Going over she crouched down beside him.
What are you doing here?
she asked.
What do you want with me?
countered Baoyu as soon as he saw who it was.
Arent you a girl too?
To prevent gossip shes ordered you to ignore me, but here you come seeking me out.
If youre seen, there will be talk.
Hurry up and go home.
Thinking Daiyu had been scolding him again, Xueyan had to go back to Bamboo Lodge where she gave Zijuan the ginseng, as their mistress was still asleep.
Whats Her Ladyship doing?
Zijuan asked.
Shes been having a siesta too.
Thats why Ive been so long, replied Xueyan.
But let me tell you something amusing, sister.
As I was waiting for the mistress and chatting with Sister Yuchuan in the maids quarters, who should beckon me out but Concubine Zhao.
I thought she had some message, but it turned out she was there to ask leave from the mistress to go to her brothers wake tonight and the funeral tomorrow and she wanted to borrow my pale- blue satin tunic for her little maid Jixiang, whos to go with her too but has nothing decent to wear.
Well, I thought, theyve clothes of their own, they just dont want to wear them to the funeral for fear of getting them dirty theyd rather borrow someone elses to soil.
Of course, Im not all that fussy about my clothes, but what kindness has that woman ever done us?
So I told her.
All my clothes and trinkets are kept by Sister Zijuan on our young ladys orders.
I should have to tell her first and then report to my young mistress.
And as our young ladys not well, it would be a lengthy business and delay you, madam.
Cant you borrow from someone else?
You imp!
Zijuan laughed.
You shift the blame for not lending your things to us, to stop her complaining about you.
Is she leaving now or not till tomorrow morning?
She was just setting off.
I expect shes gone by now.
Zijuan nodded in silence.
If our young ladys still asleep, whos been upsetting Baoyu?
continued Xueyan.
Hes sitting out there crying.
Out where?
Under the peach-blossom behind Seeping Fragrance Pavilion.
At once Zijuan laid down her needlework.
Be ready if she calls, she told Xueyan.
If she asks for me, tell her Ill be back in a minute.
So saying she left Bamboo Lodge to look for Baoyu.
Finding him, she told him gently, I was only thinking of whats best for us all.
Why take offence and rush over here to sit crying in the wind?
Are you trying to scare me by risking your health like this?
I didnt take offence, he answered with a smile.
You were quite right.
But if everyone feels the way you do, before long nobody will speak to me at all.
The thought of that upset me.
Zijuan sat down too then beside him.
Just now we were talking face to face but you wouldnt stay, he pointed out.
Why are you sitting right beside me now?
Youve probably forgotten, but a few days ago you and your cousin had just started talking about birds nest when Concubine Zhao burst in.
Ive just heard that shes gone out, and that reminded me to come and ask you what more did you mean to say if she hadnt interrupted you that day?
Oh, nothing much, said Baoyu.
It simply occurred to me that now that shes taking birds-nest and has to keep it up, its not right to impose too much on Baochai whos only a visitor here.
As its no use asking my mother.
I dropped a hint to the old lady, and I suspect she must have told Xifeng.
That was what I started explaining.
I understand an ounce of birds-nest is being sent over to you every day now, so thats all right.
So it was you who suggested that, was it?
said Zijuan.
That was very good of you.
Weve been wondering what made the old lady suddenly start sending an ounce every day.
So thats the reason.
If she takes it regularly every day, after two or three years her health should be much better.
She can have some every day here, but where will the money come from to continue the cure when she goes home next year?
Baoyu gave a start.
Whos going to which home?
he demanded.
Your cousin back to Suzhou.
Nonsense!
Baoyu chuckled.
Suzhou may be her hometown, but she came here because there was no one there to look after her after her parents death.
Whom could she go back to next year?
No, youre obviously fibbing.
What a poor opinion you have of other people!
Zijuan snorted.
You Jias may be a big, wealthy family, but do other families have only a father and mother and not other relatives?
Our young lady was brought here for a few years while she was still only a child, because the old lady felt for her and didnt think her uncles could take the place of her parents.
When she grows up to marriageable age, shes bound to be sent back to the Lin family.
How can a daughter of the Lins stay all her life with you in your Jia family?
Even if the Lins were desperately poor, for generations theyve been a family of scholars and officials theyd never expose themselves to ridicule by abandoning a daughter to relatives.
So next spring or next autumn at the latest, even if your family doesnt send her back, the Lins are sure to send to fetch her.
The other evening our young lady told me to ask you for all the little gifts and souvenirs shes given you since you were children.
She means to return all yours to you as well.
Baoyu was thunderstruck.
Zijuan waited for him to answer, but not a word could he utter.
And just then Qingwen came up.
So here you are, Baoyu!
she cried.
The old lady wants you.
Hes been inquiring after Miss Daiyus health, and Ive been reassuring him, Zijuan remarked.
But he wont believe me.
Youd better take him away.
With that she returned to her room.
Qingwen noticed Baoyus distraught look, the hectic flush on his cheeks and the sweat on his forehead.
She at once led him by the hand to Happy Red Court where his appearance horrified Xiren, who imagined he must have caught a chill in the wind while overheated.
A fever was not too alarming, but his eyes were fixed and staring, saliva was trickling from the corners of his lips, and he seemed in a state of stupefaction.
He would lie down if a pillow was put for him, would sit up if pulled, and drink tea if it was brought.
His condition threw them all into a panic, but not daring to report this too hastily to the Lady Dowager they first sent for his old nurse, Nanny Li.
Nanny Li, arriving presently, examined Baoyu carefully.
When he made no answer to any of her questions she felt his pulse, then pinched his upper lip so hard that her fingers left deep imprints yet he felt no pain.
At that she gave a great cry of despair and, taking him in her arms, started weeping and wailing.
Xiren frantically pulled her away.
Is it serious, nanny?
she demanded.
Do tell us, so that we can let the old lady and the mistress know.
Dont start carrying on like this.
Nanny Li beat the bed and pillows with her fists.
Hes done for, she wailed.
A life-time of care gone for nothing!
Xiren had asked the nurse to have a look because she respected her age and experience.
So now her words carried conviction.
They all started sobbing.
Qingwen told Xiren then what had just happened, whereupon Xiren dashed off to Bamboo Lodge.
There she found Zijuan giving Daiyu her medicine.
Blind to everything else, Xiren flew at her.
What have you been saying to our Baoyu?
she demanded.
Go and see the state hes in!
Youll have to answer for this to the old lady.
I wash my hands of it.
So saying she threw herself into a chair.
Daiyu was taken aback by Xirens furious, tear-stained face and this behaviour which was so unlike her.
Whats happened?
she asked.
Making an effort to calm herself Xiren sobbed, I dont know what your Miss Zijuans been telling him, but the silly boys eyes are staring, his hands and feet are cold he cant speak, and when Nanny Li pinched him he felt nothing.
Hes more dead than alive!
Even Nanny Li says theres no hope and is weeping and wailing there.
He may be dead by now for all I know.
Nanny Li was such an experienced old nurse that Daiyu could not but believe her gloomy predictions.
With a cry she threw up all the medicine she had just taken, and was racked by such dry coughing that her stomach burned and it seemed her lungs would burst.
Red in the face, her hair tousled, her eyes distended, limp in every limb, she choked for breath and could not lift up her head.
Zijuan made haste to massage her back while she lay gasping on her pillow.
Stop thumping me, cried Daiyu at last, pushing her away.
Youd far better fetch a rope to strangle me.
I didnt say anything, the maid protested with tears.
Just a few words in fun, which he jook seriously.
You should know how seriously the silly boy always takes teasing, scolded Xiren.
Whatever you said, go and clear up the misunderstanding, quick!
urged Daiyu.
That may bring him back to his senses.
Zijuan jumped up then and hurried off with Xiren to Happy Red Court, where the old lady and Lady Wang had already arrived.
At sight of Zijuan the old ladys eyes flashed.
You bitch!
she stormed.
What did you say to him?
Nothing, madam.
Nothing but a few words in fun.
At the sight of her Baoyu cried out and burst into tears, to the relief of everybody present.
The Lady Dowager caught Zijuans arm, thinking she had offended him, and urged him to beat her.
But Baoyu seized hold of her and would not let go.
If you go, he shouted, you must take me with you!
No one could understand this till Zijuan.
when questioned, explained her threat made in fun of going back to Suzhou.
Is that all?
exclaimed the Lady Dowager, the tears running down her cheeks.
So it was because of a joke.
She scolded Zijuan, Youre such a sensible girl normally, how could you tease him like that when you know how credulous he is?
Baoyus always been too trusting, put in Aunt Xue soothingly.
And since Daiyu came here as a child and theyve grown up together, theyre particularly close.
This sudden talk of her leaving would have upset even a hard-hearted grown-up, let alone such a simple, credulous boy.
But this disorder isnt serious you ladies mustnt worry.
One or two doses of medicine will set him right.
Just then it was announced that the wives of Lin Zhixiao and Shan Daliang had come to inquire after the young master.
Show them in, said the old lady.
Its thoughtful of them.
But on hearing the name Lin, Baoyu grew frantic again.
No, no!
he shouted from his bed.
The Lins have come to fetch her.
Drive them away!
Hastily chiming in, Drive them away!
his grandmother assured him.
Theyre not from the Lin family.
All those Lins are dead.
Nobody will ever come to fetch her.
Dont you worry.
Never mind who they are, stormed Baoyu tearfully.
No one but Cousin Daiyu should have the name Lin.
There are no Lins here, repeated the old lady.
Theyre all been driven away.
She ordered the attendants, In future dont let Lin Zhixiaos wife into the Garden.
And never mention the name Lin again.
Mind you all do as I say like good children.
Suppressing their smiles at this, the others assented.
Baoyus eye now fell on a golden boat with an engine, a toy from the West, which was on his cabinet.
Isnt that the boat coming to fetch them?
he shouted, pointing at it.
Its mooring there.
The Lady Dowager ordered its instant removal, and when Baoyu reached out for it Xiren gave it to him.
He tucked it under his bedding.
Now they wont be able to sail away, he laughed.
Seizing tight hold of Zijuan he refused to let her go.
At this point Doctor Wang was announced, and the old lady ordered him to be brought straight in.
Lady Wang, Aunt Xue and Baochai withdrew to the inner room while the Lady Dowager seated herself by Baoyu.
When Doctor Wang found such a company assembled, he paid his respects to the Lady Dowager before taking Baoyus hand to feel his pulse, while Zijuan had to stand there with lowered head, to the doctors astonishment.
Presently the doctor rose and declared, The trouble with our honourable brother is that some sharp distress has clouded his mind.
According to the ancients, Disorders of the phlegm take different forms indigestion owing to a weak constitution, derangement brought on by a sudden fit of anger, and obstruction caused by sudden distress.
This is a disorder of the third kind.
It is only a temporary blockage, however, less serious than the other types.
Just tell us if hes in danger or not.
urged the Lady Dowager.
Who wants to hear this recital of medical lore?
Doctor Wang bowed.
He is in no danger, no.
Is that really true?
she persisted.
There is really no danger, madam, I give you my word.
In that case, please take a seat in the outer room to make out your prescription.
If you cure him, I shall prepare presents to show my gratitude and send him to kowtow to you in person.
If you delay his recovery, though, I shall send to tear down the main hall of your Academy of Imperial Physicians!
The doctor bowed again.
You are too good, too good!
For he had heard only the first part of her speech and not the jocular threat with which it concluded.
He went on protesting his unworthiness until the old lady and all the rest burst out laughing.
When the medicine had been prepared according to the prescription and Baoyu had taken it, he did indeed calm down a little.
He still refused to let go of Zijuan, however.
If she leaves here, theyll go back to Suzhou!
he cried.
The Lady Dowager and Lady Wang had perforce to let Zijuan stay there.
They dispatched Hupo in her place to look after Daiyu, who from time to time sent Xueyan over to ask for news and was deeply moved when she learned all that had happened.
As everyone knew how cranky Baoyu was, and how close he and Daiyu had been since they were children, they took Zijuans joke as quite natural and his illness as nothing out of the way either, not suspecting anything else.
That evening, as Baoyu was quieter, his grandmother and mother returned to their own quarters but sent several times during the night for reports from the sickroom.
Nanny Li, Mrs. Song and some other matrons nursed the patient devotedly, while Zijuan, Xiren and Qingwen watched day and night by his bedside.
Whenever he slept he had nightmares, and would wake up crying that Daiyu had gone or that people had come to fetch her.
Each time this happened Zijuan had to comfort him.
Now his grandmother had Baoyu given all sorts of rare medicine-pills to dispel evil influences and powders to clear the mind.
And the next day, after more of Doctor Wangs medicine, his condition gradually improved but although he was in his right senses again, he pretended from time to time to be delirious in order to keep Zijuan with him.
As for her, thoroughly repenting the mischief she had caused she served him day and night without a murmur.
Xiren, herself once more, told her, As youre the one to blame for this, its up to you to cure him.
Ive never seen such a simpleton as our young master, the way he catches at shadows.
Whats to become of him?
But enough of this.
By now Xiangyun was better, and she came every day to see Baoyu.
Finding that he had recovered his faculties she mimicked his crazy behaviour during his illness until, lying on his pillow, he had to laugh.
Having no idea himself of what had passed, he could hardly believe what was told him.
When no one else was about but Zijuan, he took her hand.
Why did you frighten me?
he asked.
I only did it for fun, she replied.
But you took it seriously.
You made it sound so convincing, how was I to know it was just a joke?
he retorted.
Well, I made the whole thing up.
Theres really no one left in the Lin family except for some very distant relatives who no longer live in Suzhou but are scattered in different provinces.
Even if one of them asked for her, the old lady would never let her go.
Even if the old lady would let her go, I wouldnt.
You wouldnt!
Zijuan laughed.
Thats just talk, Im afraid.
Youre growing up now and already engaged in a couple of years youll be marrying, and then youll forget other people.
Whos engaged?
asked Baoyu in dismay.
To whom?
Before New Year I heard the old lady say she wanted to engage Miss Baoqin to you.
Why else would she make such a favourite of her?
He laughed.
People may call me crazy, but youre even crazier!
That was just a joke.
Shes already engaged to the son of Academician Mei.
If I were engaged to her, would I be in this state?
Didnt you plead with me and say I was mad when I swore that oath and wanted to smash that silly jade?
Now youve come to provoke me again just as Im getting better.
Through clenched teeth he added.
I only wish I could die this very minute and tear out my heart to show you.
Then all the rest of me, skin and bones, could be turned into ashes no, ashes still have form better be turned into smoke.
But smoke still congeals and can be seen by men it would have to be scattered in a flash, by a great wind, to the four quarters.
That would be a good death.
Tears were running down his cheeks as he spoke.
Zijuan hastily put her hand to his mouth, then wiped away his tears.
You neednt worry, she urged.
I was putting you to the test because I was worried.
You worried?
Why?
he asked in surprise.
You know I dont belong to the Lin family.
Like Xiren and Yuanyang, I was given to Miss Lin.
And she couldnt have been kinder to me.
She treats me ten times better than her own maids brought from Suzhou we dont like being parted for a single moment.
Im worried now because, if she leaves, I shall have to go with her but my whole familys here.
If I dont go, Ill be unworthy of all her goodness if I do, I shall have to abandon my own people.
Thats why, in my dilemma, I told you that fib to see how you felt about it.
How was Ito know youd take it so hard?
So thats whats worrying you, Baoyu chuckled.
What a goose you are!
Well, set your heart at rest.
Let me just put it in a nutshell for you.
If we live, we shall live together and if we die, we shall turn into ashes and smoke together.
What do you say to that?
Zijuan was turning this over in her mind when suddenly Jia Huan and Jia Lan were announced.
They had called to ask after Baoyu.
Thank them for coming, he said.
But tell them Ive just gone to bed and they neednt trouble to come in.
The woman who had brought the message assented and left.
Now that youre better you should let me go back to see my own patient, said Zijuan.
I know, he replied.
I meant to send you yesterday, but then I forgot.
Go along then, since Im completely well again.
She set about bundling together her bedding and dressing-cases.
I see several minors in your cases, he commented laughingly.
Will you leave me that small one?
I can keep it by my pillow to use in bed, and it will come in handy when I go out.
Zijuan had to do as he asked.
Having sent her things on ahead, she took her leave of everyone and went back to Bamboo Lodge.
The news of Baoyus disorder had made Daiyu suffer a relapse and brought on many bouts of weeping.
Now she asked Zijuan why she had returned and, learning that he was better, sent Hupo back to wait on the Lady Dowager.
That night, when all was quiet and Zijuan had undressed and lain down, she whispered to Daiyu Baoyus heart is really true to you.
Fancy his falling ill like that when he heard we were leaving!
Daiyu made no answer to this.
Presently Zijuan went on, half to herself, Moving isnt as good as staying put.
This is a good family anyway.
Its the hardest thing in the world to find people whove grown up together and know each others character and ways.
Arent you tired after the last few days?
scoffed Daiyu.
Why dont you sleep instead of talking such nonsense?
It isnt nonsense.
I was thinking of you.
Ive felt worried for you all these years with no father, mother or brothers to care for you.
The important thing is to settle the main affair of your life in good time, while the old ladys still clear-headed and healthy.
The proverb says, The healthiest old people last as long as a chilly spring or a hot autumn.
If anything should happen to the old lady your marriage might be delayed, or else not turn out in the way you hoped.
Theres no lack of young lordlings, but they all want three wives and five concubines and their affections change from one day to the next.
They may bring home a wife as lovely as a fairy, yet after four or five nights they cast her off, treating her like an enemy for the sake of a concubine or a slave girl.
If her familys large and powerful, thats not so bad and for someone like you, miss, so long as the old lady lives youll be all right.
Once shes gone, youll have to put up with ill treatment.
So its important to make up your mind.
Youve sense enough to understand the saying, The thousand taels of gold are easier come by than an understanding heart.
The girls crazy!
exclaimed Daiyu.
A few days away, and youve suddenly changed into a different person.
Tomorrow I shall ask the old lady to take you back.
I no longer dare keep you.
I meant well, was the smiling answer.
I just wanted you to look out for yourself, not to do anything wrong.
What good will it do if you report me to the old lady and get me into trouble?
With that Zijuan closed her eyes.
Although Daiyu had spoken so sharply, this talk had distressed her.
After Zijuan went to sleep she wept all night, no dozing off until dawn.
The next morning she found it an effort to wash herself, rinse her mouth and swallow her birds-nest broth.
Then the Lady Dowager and others called to see her and urged her to take better care of herself.
That day was Aunt Xues birthday.
Everyone from the Lady Dowager down gave her presents, and Daiyu also sent over two pieces of her own embroidery.
Aunt Xue had hired a company of actresses and at her invitation the old lady, Lady Wang and the whole family except Baoyu and Daiyu went to watch the performance.
On their way back from it that evening, the Lady Dowager and others dropped in to see the two patients again.
The next day Aunt Xue made Xue Ke keep their shop assistants company at a whole days feasting.
The celebrations lasted for three or four days.
Now Aunt Xue had been struck by Xiuyans dignity and refinement and as the girl was poor, having only a thorn for a hair-pin, and plain cloth for a skirt, her habits were frugal.
Thus Aunt Xue thought of betrothing her to her son.
After some hesitation, however, she decided it would not be fair to the girl to marry her to a profligate like Xue Pan, and it occurred to her that Xiuyan and Xue Ke who was still unmarried would make a perfect match.
She broached the subject to Xifeng.
You know how crotchety my mother-in-law is, auntie, said Xifeng with a sigh.
You must give me time to manage it.
When the Lady Dowager called to see Xifeng, the matter was broached to her.
Aunt Xue has something to ask our Old Ancestress, but doesnt know how to put it.
What is it?
asked the old lady.
Xifeng explained the marriage proposal.
Wheres the difficulty?
The old lady smiled.
Nothing could please me better.
Let me tell your mother-in-law and shes sure to agree.
Once back in her own apartments, she sent immediately to ask Lady Xing over and proposed the match herself.
Since the Xues came of fairly good stock and were now very wealthy, while Xue Ke was a handsome young man, and the go-between, moreover, was no less a person than the Lady Dowager, a moments thought convinced Lady Xing that this would be to her advantage.
So she agreed.
The Lady Dowager in high delight promptly asked Aunt Xue to come over, and there was the usual exchange of polite formalities between both parties.
Lady Xing lost no time in informing her brother Xing Zhong and his wife and since they had come there to throw themselves upon her bounty, they were naturally more than happy to give their approval.
I love meddling in other peoples affairs, said the Lady Dowager.
Now that Ive fixed this up, how much are you going to pay your go-between?
Dont worry about that, replied Aunt Xue.
Even if we brought you a hundred thousand taels of silver, I dont suppose it would mean much to you.
But since youre the go-between, madam, will you find us someone to take charge of the betrothal ceremony?
Whatever else were short of, we can produce one or two helpers of a sort, the old lady chuckled.
She sent for ha Zhens wife and daughter-in-law.
When they heard the news from her they offered their congratulations.
You know our family ways, she told Madam You.
The two families never squabble over betrothal gifts.
You must handle this business for me, neither too stingily nor too lavishly.
Report to me when everything is arranged.
As soon as Madam You accepted this task, Aunt Xue went home overjoyed to write invitation cards for the Ning Mansion.
Madam You knew Lady Xings cantankerous temper and would have preferred to have nothing to do with the business, but she had to fall in with the old ladys wishes.
She did her best to please Lady Xing, aware that Aunt Xue was so easygoing there would be no problem there.
But enough of this.
Now that the whole household knew that Xiuyan was to marry Aunt Xues nephew, Lady Xing wanted to move her out of the Garden.
What does it matter if she stays?
demurred the Lady Dowager.
Theres no danger of the two young people meeting, and it shouldnt worry you if she sees Aunt Xue and the two cousins of the other family every day.
Theyre all girls, arent they?
They may as well get to know each other better.
Lady Xing made no further objection then.
Xue Ke and Xiuyan had met once previously on their way to the capital, and in all probability they were pleased enough with the match but naturally this made Xiuyan more reserved and tongue-tied in the presence of Baochai and the rest of the girls.
She felt specially shy with Xiangyun, who was such a tease.
But being a well-brought up girl of some education, she showed no false modesty or silly coyness.
Baochai had realized from the start that Xiuyans family was poor, and while the other girls parents were respectable old people hers were penniless bodies who cared little for their daughter Lady Xing had no genuine feeling for her either, simply making a show of affection.
And Xiuyan had a sense of self-respect.
As Yingchun was too feeble even to take care of herself, let alone look after her cousin whenever Xiuyan ran short of any daily necessities there was no one to see to it, and she was too unassuming to mention it.
Baochai accordingly often helped her in secret, not letting Lady Xing know for fear of giving offence, with the result that now that this unexpected match had been arranged Xiuyan felt even more closely bound to Baochai than to Xue Ke.
She often went to chat with her, and Baochai continued to address her as cousin.
One day Baochai set out to call on Daiyu.
Happening to meet Xiuyan on the way, she beckoned her with a smile and they walked on together.
As they skirted the back of a rockery, Baochai inquired Why have you changed out of padded clothes into lined ones, when the weather is still so cold?
Xiuyan hung her head and said nothing.
Sensing some reason for this Baochai continued, Dont tell me this months allowance was held up again?
Cousin Xifeng really is growing rather thoughtless.
She issued it on the right date, rejoined Xiuyan.
But my aunt sent to tell me I shouldnt need two taels a month and must save one for my parents.
She said if I was short of anything I could borrow from Yingchun and make do.
But, you see, Yingchun is a simple soul who doesnt always think.
She wouldnt mind my using her things, but those maids and nannies of hers are all troublemakers you know what sharp tongues they have.
Though Im staying there, I dare not order them about in fact, every few days I have to spend money on wine and cakes for them.
I cant manage even on two taels a month, and now its been cut to one.
So the other day I got someone, on the sly, to pawn my padded clothes for a few strings of cash.
Hearing this, Baochai frowned and sighed in sympathy.
Its too bad that the Mei family have all gone to the new post and wont be back in the capital till the year after next, she said.
If they were here, we could arrange Baoqins wedding and then yours.
Once you leave here youll be all right.
The trouble is that Xue Ke wont consider getting married before his young sister yet if you have to put up with two more years of this, Im afraid it may ruin your health.
I must talk to my mother and see what can be done.
If people bully you, just keep your temper and on no account fall ill. Actually you may just as well give them the other tael too, so that they stop pestering you then you neednt treat those creatures for nothing.
If they make scathing remarks, just pretend not to hear and go about your own business.
When youre short of anything just apply to me.
Dont be finicky.
Its not because youre engaged now to one of our family that I want you to treat me as your relative.
Didnt we become friends as soon as you arrived here?
If you are afraid of gossip, just send your maid quietly to pass on messages to.
Xiuyan lowered her head and assented.
Then Baochai pointed at the green jade pendant hanging from her skirt.
Who gave you that?
Its a present from Cousin Tanchun.
Baochai nodded.
She must have noticed that you were the only one with no jade to wear so to stop people laughing at you she gave you this.
It shows how thoughtful and observant she is.
Still, you should know that trinkets like these are only worn in big official families of rich nobles.
Just look at me.
Do I wear such magnificent ornaments?
Seven or eight years ago I did, but not now that our family positions changed.
I economize whenever I can.
In future, when you come to our family, I dare say youll find a whole chest of such trash still there.
But nowadays our familys not like theirs.
We should after all dress more simply, not copy them.
If thats how you feel, sister, Ill go back and take it off.
No, thats not what I meant, disclaimed Baochai hastily.
Since she was kind enough to give you this, if you dont wear it shell wonder why.
I just happened to mention the matter for you to bear in mind later.
Xiuyan assented, then asked her where she was going.
To Bamboo Lodge, Baochai told her.
Slip back and send a maid over to our place with the pawn ticket.
Ill have the clothes redeemed quietly and sent to you this evening, so that you have something warm to wear otherwise youll catch cold, and that would never do.
Which shop is it, by the way?
A shop called Heng Shu on the main road west of the Drum Tower.
It happens to belong to our family.
Baochai smiled.
If the shop assistants knew theyd say, Before the bride is fetched her clothes have arrived.
Xiuyan blushed when she realized that it was one of the Xues shops.
Making no answer she went away with a smile.
At Bamboo Lodge, Baochai found her mother chatting with Daiyu.
When did you get here, mother?
she asked.
I didnt know you were coming.
Ive been too busy till today to call to see her and Baoyu, said Aunt Xue.
And now I find both of them are well again.
Daiyu offered Baochai a seat.
Life is certainly full of surprises, she said to her.
Take Aunt Xue and my Eldest Aunt, for instance.
Theyre going to be linked more closely still by marriage.
What do girls like you know about such things, child?
replied Aunt Xue.
Theres an old saying People a thousand ii apart may be linked by marriage.
Its all the doing of the Old Man of the Moon.
If hes secretly fastened his red thread around the ankles of two young people, not even the ocean or a whole country, or even a family feud for generations can stop them from becoming husband and wife.
It always comes as a surprise.
On the other hand, if the Old Man of the Moon doesn t do his part, even if the parents on both sides are willing and the young people have been brought up together and think themselves destined for each other, theyll never be united.
Take the case of you two girls.
We dont yet know whether youll marry someone close at hand or beyond mountains and seas.
Mother always drags us in!
protested Baochai.
Resting her head against her mothers breast she asked laughingly, Shall we go now?
Look at her.
teased Daiyu.
Such a big girl, and when youre not around, aunt, she looks very dignified but when shes with you she acts just like a baby.
Caressing her daughter Aunt Xue told Daiyu, This child means as much to me as Xifeng does to the old lady.
When Ive serious business, I consult her when theres none, she amuses me.
When I see her like this all my troubles melt away.
Tears came into Daiyus eyes.
Shes doing this on purpose here, to wound me by reminding me that Ive no mother.
Look, mother!
cried Baochai gaily.
Whos acting like a baby now?
You cant blame here for being upset, replied Aunt Xue.
She has no parents, poor thing, no one to care for her.
She turned then to caress Daiyu as well.
Dont cry, theres a good child, she urged.
It upsets you to see how fond I am of your cousin, but I love you even more if you only knew it.
Shes better off than you, because though shes lost her father she at least has me and her brother.
Ive often told her I cant show how fond I am of you, for fear of the gossip it would cause.
People like to put the worst interpretation on things.
Instead of admitting that youve no one to turn to and behave in a way to make everybody love you, theyd accuse me of being good to you just because youre the old ladys favourite so as to please her.
If you really love me, aunt, will you be my foster-mother?
pleaded Daiyu .If you turn me down, that means you arent in earnest.
Im willing, if you think Im good enough.
No, that wouldnt do, put in Baochai.
Why not?
Daiyu wanted to know.
Let me ask you a question, retorted Baochai with a smile.
why is Xiuyan engaged to my younger cousin before my brothers engaged?
Because hes not at home, I suppose.
Or because the horoscopes dont match.
No, its because my brother has already set his mind on someone, and itll be fixed up as soon as he returns.
I neednt name any names.
Why did I say you couldnt take her as your mother?
Just work it out for yourself!
She winked at her mother and laughed.
Daiyu buried her face in Aunt Xues lap protesting.
Aunt, if you dont spank her, I wont let her go!
Aunt Xue put her arms round her and smiled.
Dont believe a word of it.
Shes only teasing.
But honestly!
Baochai giggled.
Mothers going to ask the old lady for your hand tomorrow.
Why waste time looking elsewhere?
Daiyu lunged out at her laughing, You crazy thing!
Aunt Xue hastily parted them and told Baochai, I think even Xiuyans too good for that brother of yours, thats why I asked for her for your cousin instead.
How could I dream of giving your brother this child?
The other day, the old lady wanted your cousin Baoqin for Baoyu and if she hadnt happened to be engaged it would have been a good match.
When I fixed things up for Xiuyan the old lady quipped, I wanted one of your girls, but youve got one of ours instead.
Theres something in that although she was only joking.
Baoqin is engaged and Ive no girl for her, but I can make a suggestion.
Since the old lady is so fond of Baoyu and hes such a handsome boy, shell never agree to a wife from outside for him.
Then why not engage him to Baiyu?
Wouldnt that please everyone?
Daiyu had been listening intently, but now, at the mention of her own name, she spat in disgust and grabbed hold of Baochai.
Im going to teach you a lesson!
she cried, her cheeks burning.
Why should you provoke my aunt into rambling on in such an indelicate way?
Thats strange.
Baochai laughed.
Why spank me for something my mother said?
Zijuan ran up to them and cried laughingly, Since you have this idea, madam, why not propose it to the mistress?
Whats the hurry, child?
asked Aunt Xue teasingly.
I suppose the sooner your mistress is married off, the sooner you can find yourself a young husband.
Zijuan flushed and flashed back, Youre presuming on your age, madam!
With that she flung off.
What has this to do with you?
scolded Daiyu, and then laughed too at her discomfiture.
Amida Buddha!
Serves her right!
Aunt Xue, Baochai and all the attendants present joined in the merriment.
Then some of the older maids said cheerfully Though it was just said in fun, its a good idea.
We hope, madam, when you have time, youll discuss this with the old lady.
You can volunteer to be the go-between, then this marriage is bound to come off.
Yes, agreed Aunt Xue.
If I make this suggestion, the old ladys sure to be pleased.
As they were talking Xiangyun came in, a pawn ticket in her hand.
Whats this certificate for?
she asked.
Daiyu had a look but did not know what it was.
Its something marvellous, the matrons laughed.
But we wont teach you for nothing.
Baochai took it and saw that it was the pawn ticket Xiuyan had mentioned.
She hastily folded it up.
It must be a pawn ticket some old nurse has lost, suggested Aunt Xue.
Shell be frantic when she cant find it.
A pawn ticket?
Whats that?
asked Xiangyun.
Everybody laughed.
Little simpleton!
She doesnt even know what a pawn ticket is.
Thats quite natural, remarked Aunt Xue.
As the daughter of a noble house, and still young, how could she know of such things?
Where would she have seen one?
Even if some one in their household had one, she wouldnt set eyes on it.
So dont you go calling her a simpleton.
If you showed your young mistresses this, that would make them all simple-tons too.
Just now Miss Lin didnt know it either, agreed the women.
And not only the young ladies.
Wed be surprised if Baoyu ever set eyes on such a thing, though he often goes outside.
Aunt Xue then explained to Xiangyun and Daiyu what a pawn ticket was.
So thats it!
they exclaimed.
How clever people are at making money!
Is your family shop the same, aunt?
Listen to them!
Everyone laughed.
All crows are black the world over.
How could their shop be any different?
Where did you find this?
asked Aunt Xue.
Before Xiangyun could answer, Baochai put in, This ticket has expired.
It was cancelled years ago.
Xiangling must have given it them for fun.
Her mother, believing this, let the matter drop.
Just then someone reported that the mistress of the other house had called to see Aunt Xue, and she went home.
When the others had left as well, Baochai asked Xiangyun where she had found the ticket.
I saw your future sister-in-laws maid Zhuaner slip it to Yinger, who tucked it between the pages of a book, thinking I hadnt noticed.
As soon as theyd gone I took a peep at it, but couldnt guess what it was.
Knowing you were all here I brought it along to show you.
Can she be pawning her things?
asked Daiyu.
If so, why send you this ticket?
Realizing that she could no longer hide the truth from them, Baochai explained what had happened.
Daiyu exclaimed in distress and sympathy, but Xiangyun grew most indignant.
Wait till I go and take this up with Yingchun, she fumed.
I shall give those matrons and maids a piece of my mind.
Wont that help us to get our own back?
Baochai caught hold of her as she was starting off.
Are you out of your mind again?
she cried.
Sit down.
If you were a man, you could go out and right wrongs, teased Daiyu.
But youre not a Jing Ke or a Nie Zheng.
Dont be ridiculous.
If you wont let me have this out with them, shall we ask Xiuyan to come and stay with us in our apartments?
rejoined Xiangyun.
We can discuss that later.
Baochai smiled.
Tanchun and Xichun being announced at this point, they made haste to change the subject.
If you want to know the upshot, read the next chapter.
Chapter 58 Under the Shade of an Apricot Tree an Actress Mourns Her Stage Lover The Master of Happy Red Court Sympathizes with the Girls lnfatuation The subject of conversation was changed at the arrival of Tanchun and Xichun.
The newcomers having asked after Daiyus health, they all chatted for a while before dispersing.
Now the demise of the Grand Imperial Concubine mentioned earlier was announced, and all titled ladies were required to go to court to mourn according to their rank.
Nobles throughout the empire were forbidden feasting and music for a year, while common citizens were debarred from marrying for three months.
The Lady Dowager, Lady Xing, Lady Wang, Madam You and her daughter-in-law nee Xu grandparents as well as grand-children of the Jia family had to go to court every morning when sacrifice was offered, not returning until two in the afternoon.
After twenty-one days of lying in state in the Great Inner Court of the Side Palace, the coffin would be conveyed to the Imperial Mausoleum in the county called Xiaoci and as this was some ten days journey from the capital, and the coffin would have to wait there for several days before it could be interred in the underground palace, the whole proceedings would occupy nearly one month.
By rights, Jia Zhen and his wife of the Ning Mansion should both have assisted at these obsequies but as that would have left no one in charge at home, after much discussion they decided to beg leave from the court for Madam You on the plea that she was with child, so that she could take over the supervision of the two mansions.
Aunt Xue, having been prevailed upon to keep an eye on the girls and maids in the Garden, now had to move in there too.
But at this juncture Baochai had Xiangyun and Xiangling with her Li Wan, although her aunt and her aunts two daughters were not staying with her, received visits from them every few days, and she had been entrusted with Baoqin as well by the Lady Dowager Yingchun had Xiuyan Tanchuns apartments were not convenient either, as she was so occupied with household affairs and the trouble caused by Concubine Zhao and Jia Huan and Xichuns space was limited.
Besides, as the old lady had asked Aunt Xue to take special care of Daiyu, for whom she herself felt the deepest sympathy, under the circumstances she naturally moved into Bamboo Lodge where she shared Daiyus room and kept a strict eye on the girls medicine and diet.
Daiyu was more grateful for this than words can tell.
She began to treat Aunt Xue as her own mother and Baochai and Baoqin as her sisters, feeling closer to them than to all the other girls, to the Lady Dowagers great satisfaction.
Aunt Xue simply looked after the girls and controlled the younger maids, however, not interfering with other family business.
And though Madam You came over every day she dealt only with routine matters, careful not to overstep her authority.
In any case she was too busy, for besides being in sole charge of the Ning Mansion she had to see to the daily food and supplies for the Lady Dowager and Lady Wang in the hostel where they were staying.
While those in charge of the two mansions had their hands full in this way, all the chief stewards were busy too those who had not left earlier to look for lodgings for their masters and mistresses during the funeral ceremonies, either accompanied their masters to court or were busy handling jobs in their hostel outside.
And in the absence of proper supervision, the servants of both mansions slacked or ganged up under the provisory chief stewards to abuse their power.
The only stewards left in the Rong Mansion were Lai Da and a few in charge of outside business.
Deprived of his usual assistants, Lai Da delegated authority to some ignorant rogues who proved far from satisfactory, cheating him and sending in false accusations or recommendations.
But we need not dwell here on all the trouble they caused.
As other official families were now disbanding their private opera troupes, Madam You and the others decided that when Lady Wang came home they would suggest dispensing with the services of their twelve child-actresses too.
We bought those girls, they told her, so even if we stop training them we can keep them on as maids, just dismissing their instructors.
We cant treat them as servants, objected Lady Wang.
Theyre the daughters of respectable families, whose parents being unable to make a living sold them into this low trade to dress up as ghosts and demons for several years.
Heres our chance to give them a few taels of silver as travelling-expenses would be unkind, and niggardly too.
We still have a few old actresses here, its true, but they had their own reasons for not wanting to leave, which is why we kept them on as attendants and eventually married them to our own servants.
Lets find out which of these twelve girls want to go home, proposed Madam You.
Then we can send word to their parents to come and fetch them and give them a few taels of silver as travelling-expenses.
But we must make sure that its their parents who come for them, not some scoundrels who pretend to be their kinsmen and take them off merely to sell them all over again.
For in that case, wouldnt our kindness come to nothing?
Anyone who doesnt want to leave can stay.
When Lady Wang approved, Madam You sent to inform Xifeng and ordered the steward in charge to give each of the instructors an eight-tael gratuity with free permission to leave.
Everything in Pear Fragrance Court was inventoried and put away, and some servants were appointed to guard the place at night.
More than half the twelve young actresses, when summoned and questioned, proved reluctant to go home.
Some said that their parents were only out to make money, and if they went back they would be sold again others that their parents were dead, and they had been sold by their uncles or their brothers others that they had nowhere to go yet others that they had no wish to leave this family which had been so good to them.
In all, only four or five elected to leave.
When Lady Wang heard this she had to keep them.
The few who chose to leave were instructed to stay with their foster-mothers until their own parents should come for them.
Of those who chose to remain, Wenguan was kept by the Lady Dowager, most of the rest being sent to different apartments in the Garden.
Fangguan who played the part of young ladies was assigned to Baoyu Ruiguan who played pert maids to Baochai Ouguan who played young gentlemen to Daiyu Kuiguan who played the chief warriors to Xiangyun Douguan who played lesser warriors to Baoqin and Aiguan who played old men to Tanchun.
Madam You then took Jiaguan whose role was old women.
Once places had been found for them, they were as merry the whole day long in the Garden as caged birds newly set free for everyone showed them indulgence, knowing that they had never learned to sew or wait on other people.
One or two of the more intelligent, however, were worried by their lack of useful skills now that they had given up acting so they began to learn sewing, weaving and other tasks expected of girls.
Soon the day came for the great sacrifice at court.
The Lady Dowager and her party went at dawn to the hostel, where they had some refreshments before proceeding to court.
After breakfast they retired to the hostel for a short rest, returning to court after lunch and a nap for the noon and evening sacrifices, then going back for another rest and not returning home until after dinner.
Their hostel, the family temple of a high official, had nuns in residence and scores of cells all of which were scrupulously clean.
The Rong Mansion party had the use of the east courtyard, the Prince of Beijings household that of the west.
Since the Princess Dowager and the Princess Consorts also rested there every day, they daily met the Lady Dowager and her party in the east courtyard, and the two families travelled to court and back together, keeping each other company.
But these happenings outside need not concern us.
To return to Grand View Garden.
Since the Lady Dowager and Lady Wang were away for the whole month of the state funeral, the maid-servants at home had little to do but amuse themselves in the Garden, whose occupants were increased by several dozen now that the matrons from Pear Fragrance Court were dispersed among the different apartments there.
Because Wenguan and most of the other actresses, owing to pride or their privileged position, had given themselves airs above their station, treated their inferiors badly, insisted on the best of everything and made cutting remarks, the matrons had always resented them, not that they dared to quarrel with them outright.
Pleased by the disbanding of the opera troupe, some of them let bygones be bygones and though the more narrow-minded still bore a grudge, they were too scattered now to venture to get their own back.
Now the Clear and Bright Festival came round again.
Jia Lian, having prepared the traditional offerings, took Jia Huan, Jia Cong and Jia Lan to Iron Threshold Temple to sacrifice to the dead.
Jia Rong of the Ning Mansion did the same with other young men of the clan.
Baoyu, not yet fully recovered, was the only one not to go.
After the midday meal he felt drowsy.
Why not go out while its fine?
suggested Xiren.
Sleeping straight after lunch may give you indigestion.
So taking a cane he strolled out in his slippers.
He found the matrons recently put in charge of different parts of the Garden busy at their various tasks, pruning bamboos and trees, planting flowers or sowing beans, while others in boats dredged mud from the lake or planted lotus there.
Xiangyun, Xiangling, Baoqin and several young maids were sitting on the rocks enjoying the sight.
As Baoyu sauntered towards them Xiangyun laughed.
Drive that boat away, quick!
she cried.
Its come to fetch Cousin Lin.
The general laughter this raised made Baoyu blush.
Did I choose to fall ill?
he retorted.
Its not kind to make fun of me.
Even in illness you had to be unique, she teased.
How can you blame us for laughing?
He sat down then to watch everyone hard at work.
Theres a wind here and its cold sitting on the rock, remarked Xiangyun presently.
Wed better go indoors.
As Baoyu was eager to see Daiyu, he parted company with them and walked on with his cane along the dyke from Seeping Fragrance Bridge.
The willows were trailing golden threads, peach-blossom made a red mist, and the big apricot tree behind an artificial mountain was already bare of flowers and covered with thick foliage.
The apricots on it were no bigger than peas.
Just a few days illness and I missed the apricot-blossom, thought Baoyu.
Now Green leaves make a shade and the boughs are filled with fruit.
Lost in contemplation of the tree, he thought of Xiuyan and her recent engagement.
Though marriage was something everyone must go through with, this would mean one good girl the less in just a couple of years she would be burdened with children as this tree was with fruit and just as the apricots would soon be gone, leaving the branches bare, in a few more years Xiuyans hair would be turning silver and she would lose her beauty too.
He could not help shedding tears as he gazed at the tree.
But as he was sighing, a bird alighting to chirp on one of its boughs set him indulging in foolish fancies again.
This bird must have visited the tree when it was in bloom, he mused.
Now that there are no flowers left, only fruit and leaves, its chirping like this by way of lamentation.
Too bad Gongye Chang 2 isnt here to tell me what its saying.
Will it come back next year to see the blossom, I wonder?
As he was occupied with these foolish fancies, a flame sprang up on the other side of the artificial mountain and frightened the bird away.
Startled, Baoyu heard a voice cry, Do you want to die, Ouguan?
How can you burn all this paper money here?
I shall report this to the mistresses, so look out for a thrashing!
Baoyu hurried in bewilderment to the other side of the rockery.
There he discovered Ouguan, her face stained with tears, crouching over the ashes of some paper money, a light still in her hand.
To whom are you making this offering?
he asked.
You mustnt do it here.
If its for your parents or brothers, tell me their names and Ill write them down on paper and get the page boys outside to do it properly for you.
Ouguan said nothing to this, not even when Baoyu repeated his question.
Then up came an irate matron to drag her away.
Ive reported this to the mistresses.
Theyre very angry!
she scolded.
Ouguan, being only a child, hung back for fear of being put to shame.
I always said you were riding for a fall, stormed the woman.
You cant fool around here the way you did outside.
You have to watch your step.
Pointing at Baoyu she continued, Even our young master has to observe the rules.
Who do you think you are to fool around here?
Its no use being afraid.
Come along with me.
She wasnt burning paper coins but waste paper for Miss Lin, put in Baoyu quickly.
You didnt see clearly and accused her wrongly.
Ouguan had been at a loss, and Baoyus appearance had frightened her even more but she took heart when he covered up for her like this and started defending herself.
Just look, is this paper money?
she demanded.
Miss Lin spoiled some paper when writing thats what Ive been burning.
The woman, even more provoked by this, stooped to pick up two unburned paper coins from the ashes.
Still trying to deny it?
she snapped.
Heres the evidence.
Well discuss it in front of the mistresses.
She caught hold of the girls sleeve to drag her off.
Baoyu quickly pulled Ouguan back, knocking the womans hand away with his cane.
Take that if you want to, he said.
Ill tell you the truth.
Last night I dreamed that the spirit of the apricot tree came to ask me for a string of white paper money, saying that if it was burns for me by a stranger, not by anyone in my apartments, my sickness would be cured faster.
Thats why I got this paper, then asked Miss Lins permission to have her come and burn it for me to make my dream come true.
It had to be kept a secret, and I was just beginning to feel better, able to get out of bed.
But now, by butting in like this, youve gone and spoiled everything.
And do you still mean to report her?
Go with her, Ouguan, and tell them what Ive just said.
When the old lady comes back, Ill report her for deliberately spoiling my sacrifice so as to make me die early.
Emboldened by this, Ouguan started tugging the woman away.
The latter hastily dropped the paper money.
How was Ito know?
she asked Baoyu meekly.
If you tell the old lady, Second Master, it will be the end of me!
Ill go and tell the mistresses that I made a mistake it was you burning sacrificial paper.
Dont say anything about it and I wont tell her, he promised.
But Ive already reported it, and they ordered me to take her there.
How can I say nothing?
All right, Ill tell them Miss Lin sent for her.
Baoyu thought for a while then nodded, and the woman went away.
Then he asked again Whom was the offering for?
Im sure it cant have been for your own people, as in that case youd have asked others to burn it for you.
There must be a story behind it.
Ouguan, grateful for his championship, began to feel that they were kindred spirits.
Tears sprang to her eyes.
Only two people know this, she said, Fangguan in your place and Miss Baochais Ruiguan.
As you happened to spot me today and youve just helped me, I shall have to let you into my secret.
You mustnt tell a soul though.
Then, sobbing again, she added, I cant bring myself to tell you.
If you must know, go back and ask Fangguan when no one else is about.
With that she went abruptly away.
Baoyu was very puzzled as he went on to Bamboo Lodge.
He found Daiyu looking more pathetically frail than ever, although she insisted that her health was much better.
She saw that he too was much thinner, and could not help shedding tears at the thought of the reason.
After a brief chat she urged him to go back and rest, and Baoyu took her advice, being eager to question Fangguan.
But it so happened that Xiangyun and Xiangling had called and were chatting with her and Xiren.
He could not call her aside for fear of arousing their curiosity.
All he could do was to wait.
After a while Fangguan went out with her foster-mother to have her hair washed.
When the woman made her own daughter wash first, Fangguan accused her of showing favouritism.
So Im to wash with the water your daughter has used, am I?
she complained.
You grab my whole monthly allowance, and on top of taking advantage of me like that expect me to be content with other peoples leavings!
You dont know when youre well off, you wretch, blustered the discomfited woman.
No wonder everyone says Dont tangle with actresses even the best of them go to the bad once they take to the stage.
Who do you think you are, you little monkey, to pick and choose like this and give me the rough side of your tongue?
Youre like a mule biting its mates.
Then the two of them started quarrelling in earnest.
Xiren sent a maid to urge them, Stop that noise.
Cant you keep quiet when the old ladys away?
Fangguans too fussy, said Qingwen.
Why should she be so cocky?
All shes done is sing in a couple of operas shes not killed a traitor or captured a rebel chief.
You cant clap with one hand, quoted Xiren.
The old ones too unfair and the young ones too tiresome.
You mustnt blame Fangguan, Baoyu expostulated.
As the proverb says, Injustice will cry out.
She has no folk of her own, no one to care for her here and that woman takes her money yet still treats her so badly.
How can you say its her fault?
He asked Xiren, How much is her monthly allowance?
Why dont you take it and look after her?
Wouldnt that save trouble all round?
If I want to look after her, I can anyway.
Why should I need her bit of money to do it?
replied Xiren.
That would simply set tongues wagging.
She got up and fetched from her room a bottle of scent and pomade, as well as some eggs, soap and hair-ribbons.
Give these to Fangguan, she told one of the matrons.
Tell her to send for some more water to wash her hair.
They must stop quarrelling.
This only incensed and humiliated the foster-mother even more.
You ungrateful slut, she swore at Fangguan.
So now youre accusing me of robbing you!
She slapped the girl and set her wailing.
Baoyu started towards the outer room, but Xiren hastily stopped him.
Stay where you are, she urged.
Ill see to this.
Qingwen had already gone out to confront the woman, however.
Old as you are, you have no sense, she scolded.
We only gave her those things because you dont take proper care of her.
But instead of feeling ashamed of yourself, you have the nerve to slap her!
Would you dare do such a thing if she were still training in the opera troupe?
She accepted me as her mother, so shes my daughter, was the reply.
If she talks back at me, Ive the right to beat her.
Xiren told Sheyue, Im no good at arguing, and Qingwens too hot-tempered.
Why dont you go and give her a good scare?
Sheyue at once went out.
Stop that noise and answer me this, she said to the woman.
In all the Garden, not just these apartments, which servant have you ever seen reprimand her children in the masters rooms?
Even if she were your own daughter, once shes in service here its up to the master or the senior girls to punish her or scold her.
Its not for her parents to meddle with our affairs.
If everybody butted in like you, what are we here supposed to do?
The older you get, the less you respect the rules.
You saw Zhuiers ma make a scene here the other day, so now youre following suit.
Well, just you wait!
These last few days, with so many people ill and the old lady so busy, I havent reported this yet.
In a couple of days I shall make a full report, and that will take the wind out of your sails.
Baoyus just getting better, and weve all been trying to keep our voices down yet you raise a rumpus fit to wake the dead.
If the higher-ups are away just a few days, you lot run completely wild with no respect for anyone at all.
In another day or two, I suppose, youll be slapping us as well.
She doesnt need a foster-mother like you to muck her up!
Baoyu, in the doorway, pounded the sill with his cane.
How can these old women be so heartless?
he fumed.
Fantastic!
Instead of looking after the girls in their charge, they torment them.
If this goes on, whats to be done?
Whats to be done?
echoed Qingwen.
Drive all those humbugs out, I say.
We dont need such good-for-nothings here.
The woman was too deflated to say a word.
Meanwhile Fangguan, wearing only a cerise padded jacket and flowered green silk lined-trousers, loose round the ankles, her glossy black hair streaming over her shoulders, had given way to floods of tears.
Sheyue teased, Miss Yingying has turned into Hongniang after a beating.
3 Although youre not on the stage now, you look just like her.
Arent you going to tidy yourself up?
No, shes fine as she is, objected Baoyu.
She looks completely natural.
Why should she spruce up?
Qingwen led Fangguan away to wash her hair and dry it with a towel for her, after which she fastened it in a loose knot.
Then she told her to change her clothes before rejoining them.
The old kitchen-maids now reported that dinner was ready, and asked whether it should be sent in or not.
A young maid brought in this message to Xiren.
With all that racket just now I forgot to listen for the clock, she said.
What time is it?
Somethings wrong with that silly clock, it needs mending again, answered Qingwen.
Having looked at a watch she said, Just wait for the time for half a cup of tea.
As the young maid withdrew, Sheyue remarked, Fangguan does deserve a spanking for being naughty.
She was playing with the pendulum yesterday thats how the clock got broken.
While speaking she laid the table.
The young maid came back with a hamper for their inspection.
And Qingwen and Sheyue, opening it, found the usual four kinds of pickles inside.
Hes better now, but they keep serving this rice gruel and pickles, grumbled Qingwen.
Why not send a couple of easily digested dishes instead?
Just then, however, at the bottom of the hamper, she discovered a bowl of ham-and-fresh-bamboo-shoot soup.
She put this before Baoyu, who took a sip.
Its too hot!
he exclaimed.
Xiren laughed.
A few days without meat and youve grown so greedy!
She took the bowl and blew gently at the film of oil on the surface.
Then, noticing Fangguan standing near by, she passed the bowl to her.
You can do this, she said.
Time you learned to make yourself useful, instead of acting like a silly goose.
Mind you blow gently though.
Dont spit into the soup.
Fangguan did as she was told, and was managing quite well, when in rushed her foster-mother who had been waiting outside with the rice.
Now when Fangguan and the others first arrived they had been assigned foster-mothers outside, who had later accompanied them to Pear Fragrance Court.
This woman had originally been a third-class servant in the Rong Mansion, only doing some laundry work and never entering the inner apartments, so that she did not know the rules of the house.
Once the actresses were taken into the Garden, however, their foster-mothers had gone with them to the different apartments.
After being told off by Sheyue, this woman was afraid that she might not be allowed to remain in charge of Fangguan, and that would be very much to her disadvantage.
So she was determined now to win them round.
Seeing Fangguan blowing on the soup, she hurried in.
Let me do that!
she cried with a smile.
Shes so green she may break the bowl.
She reached out for it.
Get out!
shouted Qingwen.
Even if you make her smash it, this is no job for you.
How dare you sneak into this room?
Out you go at once!
She scolded the younger maids, Are you all blind?
If she doesnt know any better, you should have told her.
We tried to chase her away but she wouldnt go, they protested.
She didnt believe us.
And now shes got us into trouble too.
They rounded on the woman.
Now do you believe us?
Half the places were allowed in are out of bounds to you, yet here you come bursting in where even we are forbidden to go.
As if that werent enough, you start reaching out and opening your big mouth!
They bundled the woman off.
The matrons waiting at the foot of the steps for the hampers greeted her with mocking laughter.
You should have looked in the mirror before butting in there, sister, one of them sniggered.
The woman, torn between rage and shame, had to control herself as best she could.
By now, Fangguan had blown on the soup several times.
That 11 do, said Baoyu.
Dont tire yourself.
Taste it to see if its cool enough.
Thinking he must be joking, she turned with a smile to Xiren and the other girls.
Go on, taste it, urged Xiren.
Let me show you, offered Qingwen, then took a sip.
Fangguan followed her example.
Its all right, she said.
She passed the soup to Baoyu, who drank half a bowl and ate a few bamboo shoots with half a bowl of rice gruel.
After that they cleared the table, some young maids brought in a basin, and as soon as he had rinsed his mouth and washed it was time for Xiren and the others to have their meal.
Baoyu signalled at this point to Fangguan.
And since she was quick in the uptake and had learned a good deal in her few years as an actress, she pretended that she had a headache and had lost her appetite.
Then you may as well stay here and keep him company, said Xiren.
Ill leave you the gruel, in ease you feel like it later.
With that the other girls left.
When the two of them were alone, Baoyu described in detail how he had noticed something burning and spotted Ouguan, how he had lied to cover up for her, and how Ouguan had told him to ask her, Fangguan, for an explanation.
For whom were those offerings?
he asked.
Fangguan heard him out with a smile, then heaved a sigh.
Its a funny business but pathetic too.
What do you mean?
That offering was for Diguan, who died.
Why not, if they were friends?
They werent just ordinary friends.
Ouguan had the fantastic notion that as she used to play young men and Diguan young ladies, and as they were often cast as husband and wife, although it was make-believe they should act the part every day as if they were really in love.
So they became so crazy about each other that even offstage they were for ever together.
In the end they were so devoted that when Diguan died she nearly cried her heart out, and to this day shes never forgotten her.
Thats why she burns paper money at all the festivals.
When Ruiguan later took Diguans place, we found that Ouguan was just as attached to her.
Has your new sweetheart made you forget the old one?
we asked.
No, but theres a very good reason for this, she told us.
Im like a widower who marries again.
If he doesnt forget his first wife, hes still true to her.
But if he insists on remaining single all the rest of his life, thats against the rules of propriety too, and how could his dead wife rest in peace in her grave?
Dont you call that crazy and senseless?
Its really ridiculous!
However, such foolish talk was precisely the kind to appeal to foolish Baoyu.
He exclaimed in wonder, torn between sadness and joy.
Since Heaven creates such wonderful girls, what use are we filthy males except to contaminate the world?
he cried.
He took Fangguans hand and urged her, If thats how things are, you must tell her something from me.
I cant very well tell her directly.
What is it?
asked Fangguan.
In future, she mustnt burn paper coins.
Thats a later practice and a heretical one, not based on the instructions of Confucius.
At all future festivals she need only burn some incense in a censer and if her heart is pure, Diguans spirit will know it.
Foolish people dont understand and have different sorts of sacrifices for the gods, Buddha and the dead whereas actually the important thing is just sincerity.
Even if youre in a hurry, or away from home and unable to find incense, you can offer a clod of earth or a blade of grass, provided that its clean.
Not only will the spirits of the dead accept such a sacrifice, even the gods will too.
Havent you seen that censer on my desk?
Whenever I miss some dead friend, whatever the date, I burn incense and offer some fresh water or tea, or maybe flowers or fruit, or even meat or vegetables.
As long as your heart is pure, Buddha himself will come to the sacrifice.
Thats why we say Its the intention that counts, not the empty form.
So go presently and tell her not to burn any more paper money in future.
Fangguan promised to do this and then ate the rice gruel.
Just at that moment someone announced that Their Ladyships were back.
To know what happened after, read the next chapter.
Chapter 59 Yinger and Chunyan Are Scolded by Willow Bank And Red Rue Studio Sends for Reinforcements Baoyu put on a coat and went over with his cane to pay his respects to Their Ladyships.
Tired out after their recent exertions, they went to bed unusually early and after an uneventful night returned to the court at dawn.
The day for the funeral cortege to set off to the Imperial Tombs was now approaching.
Yuanyang, Hupo, Feicui and Boli were busy packing the Lady Dowagers things while Yuchuan, Caiyun and Caixia packed for Lady Wang, after which they checked through the baggage with the stewards wives who would be accompanying their mistresses.
Six maids and ten stewards wives in all would be going, in addition to men-servants but Yuanyang and Yuchuan were to stay behind to see to things at home.
Horse-borne litters and harness had been made ready.
And the curtains and bedding which had been prepared a few days previously were taken on ahead in carts by four of five women and a few men to the hostel, ready for the main partys arrival.
When the day came, the Lady Dowager and Jia Rongs wife took a horse-borne litter, with Lady Wang behind in another, while Jia Zhen rode at the head of an escort of servants.
There were several big carts too for serving-women and maids which also carried changes of clothing.
Aunt Xue and Madam You, at the head of the rest of the household, saw them off from outside the main gate.
And Jia Lian, to smooth their journey for them, having seen his parents off caught up with the litters and followed behind with the escort.
In the Rong Mansion, Lai Da posted extra night-watchmen and locked the two main gates so that the only way in or out was through the small west side gate and at sunset he had the ceremonial gate closed, allowing no entrance or exit.
The front and back side gates and those to the east and west of the Garden were also locked, except for that leading to the back of Lady Wangs compound, which was used by the girls, and the gate on the east to Aunt Xues compound.
These two, being in the inner court, did not have to be locked.
Inside, Yuanyang and Yuchuan also closed their mistresses main apartments, and took the other maids and matrons from there to stay in the servants quarters while every night Lin Zhixiaos wife brought some dozen old serving-women to keep watch, and all the entrance halls were patrolled by extra pages with clappers.
In this way excellent order was maintained.
Early one spring morning when Baochai awoke, parted her bed-curtains and got up, she found it rather chilly.
She opened the door and looked out.
The soil in the courtyard was moist, the moss on it green, for a light rain had fallen at dawn.
She then woke Xiangyun and the others.
As they were dressing, Xiangyun remarked that her cheeks itched.
She was afraid she had a spring rash again, and would like some rose-nitric powder to apply to it.
I gave all I had left the other day to Baoqin, Baochai told her.
Daiyu had a good deal made and I was meaning to ask her for some, but not having felt any itching this spring I forgot.
She ordered Yinger to go and fetch some of this powder.
As Yinger was about to leave on this errand, Ruiguan offered to go with her, as that would give her a chance to see Ouguan.
So the two of them set off from Alpinia Park.
Chatting as they strolled, the girls soon reached Willow Bank.
As they walked along it they saw that the willows, now turning green, seemed hung with golden threads.
Can you weave things out of osiers?
Yinger asked.
What sort of things?
Oh, anything little toys or useful objects.
Wait till Ive picked a few twigs with leaves and Ill make a basket to fill with different flowers.
That should be fun.
So instead of fetching the powder, Yinger plucked an armful of tender twigs which she made Ruiguan carry, and started to weave a basket as on they walked, stopping now and then to pick flowers.
The dainty little basket was soon completed.
Covered with its own fresh green leaves and filled with flowers, it made a charming and original toy.
Ruiguan was delighted with it.
Do be a dear and give it to me!
she begged.
No, this is for Miss Lin.
Well pick more to make some for the rest of us later.
By now they had reached Bamboo Lodge, where they found Daiyu at her toilet.
At sight of the basket she exclaimed with pleasure.
Who made this pretty thing?
I did, said Yinger.
Its a present for you, miss.
Daiyu took it, remarking, No wonder everyone says you have clever fingers.
This is really original.
After examining it she made Zijuan hang it up.
Yinger, having asked after Aunt Xue, disclosed her errand.
Then Daiyu got Zijuan to wrap up a packet of the powder for her.
Im better today, remarked Daiyu.
I mean to go for a stroll.
Go back and tell Cousin Baochai theres no need for her to come and pay her respects to Aunt Xue or trouble to call on me either.
As soon as Ive done my hair, were both going, over to your place.
We shall have our breakfast taken over there too.
It will be livelier having it together.
Yinger assented, then went to Zijuans room where she found Ruiguan unwilling to leave, so engrossed was she in her conversation with Ouguan.
Miss Daiyu is coming to our place, Yinger told them.
Why not come with us, Ouguan, and wait for her there?
Thats a good idea, said Zijuan.
Shes just a nuisance here.
She wrapped up Daiyus spoon and chopsticks in a table napkin and gave it to Ouguan saying, Heres a job for you.
Take this along first.
Ouguan went off cheerfully with the other two.
As they walked along Willow Bank, Yinger picked some more twigs, then sat down on a rock to plait them, telling Ruiguan to deliver the powder first and then come back.
But the two other girls were too intrigued by what she was making to leave.
To hurry them she threatened If you dont go now, Ill stop.
Ill go with you, volunteered Ouguan.
Then we can hurry back.
And with that they went off.
Presently along came Mother Hes young daughter Chunyan, who wanted to know what Yinger was making.
Just at that moment the other girls returned.
What was that paper you were burning the other day when my aunt spotted you?
Chunyan asked Ouguan.
Before she could report you, Baoyu gave her such a dressing-down that she went off in a huff and told my mother all about it.
What feud did you have with them those few years in the troupe outside the Garden that youre still at loggerheads?
What feud?
Ouguan snorted.
Theres just no satisfying them theyre for ever nagging at us.
Not to mention anything else, goodness knows how much they made the last two years out of our daily food allowance outside more than enough to feed their own families in addition to their rake off on purchases.
Yet any job we give them, they complain to high heaven.
What sort of behaviour is that?
Chunyan smiled.
Shes my aunt, so I cant run her down to outsiders.
But no wonder Baoyu says A girl before marriage is a precious pearl after marriage, she somehow picks up all sorts of bad habits so that the pearl loses its lustre -- its a dead pearl and as she grows still older, the pearl changes into a fish-eye.
What a metamorphosis!
Thats silly talk maybe, still theres something in it.
I dont know about other people, but as for my mother and her sister, my aunt, its true that the older they grow the madder they get for money.
First, at home, the two of them groused that they had no fat jobs then luckily there was this Garden and I happened to be assigned to Happy Red Court so apart from saving my keep, the family got four or five hundred cash extra a month.
But they still said that wasnt enough.
Later both were assigned to Pear Fragrance Court to look after the actresses.
My aunt had Ouguan as her foster-daughter my mother, Fangguan so for the last few years they were in clover.
Since the actresses have moved into the Garden, theyve been living separately, but theyre still just as greedy.
Ridiculous, isnt it?
The other day my aunt scolded Ouguan then my mother squabbled with Fangguan wouldnt even let her wash her hair.
Yesterday being pay-day, my mother got Fangguans monthly allowance.
As she couldnt get out of buying her some things, she told me I could wash first.
I thought Ive my own monthly allowance, and even if I hadnt I could wash my hair any time simply by asking Xiren, Qingwen or Sheyue.
Why should I accept this as a favour?
How futile!
When I refused, she made my younger sister Xiaojiu wash before Fangguan.
Then naturally there was a row.
And next she wanted to blow on Baoyus soup its enough to make you split your sides laughing.
As soon as she came in here I told her the rules but she didnt believe me, insisted she knew better.
Shes simply been asking for a snub.
Its a good thing there are so many people in the Garden that no one remembers different relationships clearly.
If they did, and it appeared that ours was the only quarrelsome family, Id feel bad about these squabbles.
Now youre playing about here where everythings in the charge of my paternal aunt, whos stricter about it, ever since it was put in her care, than about her own property.
Apart from getting up early and turning in late so as to watch over it, she makes us keep an eye on things too for fear any damage is done, interfering, Im afraid, with my own work.
Now that theyve both moved in here, the two sisters-in-law keep such a careful watch, they wont allow a single blade of grass to be touched yet youve plucked all these flowers and twigs!
Theyll be here any minute now youd better watch out!
Others may not be allowed to pick what they like, but I am, retorted Yinger.
After the different places were allotted, each household was assigned its share of the produce.
Not counting edibles, just take flowers for example.
Those in charge have to send some over every day for the young ladies and maids to wear, as well as to put in their vases.
My young lady was the only one who told them not to send any.
She said shed ask for what she needed, but in fact she never once has.
So how can they scold me for picking a few flowers now?
While she was still speaking, sure enough, along came Chunyans aunt leaning on her cane.
Yinger and Chunyan at once urged her to be seated.
The sight of all the willow twigs and flowers which Ouguan and the others had picked vexed the woman, but not liking to say anything against Yinger, who was making a basket, she rounded on her niece.
I told you to keep an eye on things, but you take that as a chance to play around and not go back to your apartments.
When they want you there, you say youve been working for me.
Using me as your cover, eh?
You order me about yet youre afraid, and now youre scolding me, protested Chunyan.
I cant be everywhere at once, can I?
Dont you believe her, aunt, chuckled Yinger.
She was the one who picked all these and asked me to make her a basket.
When I tried to chase her away, she wouldnt go.
Dont talk such nonsense!
cried Chunyan.
My aunt cant take a joke, shell believe you.
Indeed, her aunt had been born stupid, and now that age had addled her wits her one interest in life was money she had no consideration at all for others.
Inwardly fuming, she had not known how to retaliate until Yinger made this joke.
Now, presuming on her seniority, she raised her cane and struck her niece several blows.
Little bitch!
she swore.
Ill teach you to talk back!
Your mothers grinding her teeth, itching to tear you to pieces and chew you up.
Yet you still answer me back in that pert way!
Hurt and humiliated, Chunyan sobbed, Sister Yinger was only joking, yet you believed her and beat me.
Why should my mother be angry?
Ive not boiled away her water or burned her pan.
What have I done wrong?
Yinger, seeing that her teasing had really angered the woman, now caught her by the arm.
I was only joking, she said soothingly.
By beating her you make me feel bad too.
Dont meddle with our affairs, miss, snapped the other.
Cant we punish our own children just because youre here?
This stupid gibe made Yinger flush with anger.
She let go of the woman with a scornful laugh.
You can punish her any time you please.
Why do it just after I make a joke?
All right go ahead.
With that she sat down again and was going on making her basket when who should appear but Chunyans mother in search of her daughter.
Why havent you fetched water yet?
she called.
What are you doing there?
Come and look at this minx!
her sister-in-law chimed in.
She wont obey even me.
She keeps answering back.
Mother He came over to them.
Now whats the girl up to?
she demanded.
You may have no respect for your own mother, but you should at least show some respect to your aunt.
Yinger tried to explain what had happened, but Chunyans aunt would not let her get a word in.
Pointing to the flower basket on the rock she fumed See!
Your girls not a child any more, yet she still fools about.
When she brings people here to wreck the place, how can I tell them off?
Mother Hes tiff with Fangguan still rankled, and Chunyans waywardness made her even angrier.
Stepping forward she boxed her ears.
You bitch!
she cried.
A few years in high society and you imitate the ways of those loose women.
Ill have to teach you a lesson.
I may not be able to control my foster-child but youre my own spawn.
Im not afraid of you!
Even if I cant go where you young bitches go, why dont you stay put there, waiting on your mistress?
Why gad about outside so shamelessly?
Grabbing the osiers she brandished them in Chunyans face.
Whats this youre making?
Your mothers arse?
We made that, cut in Yinger.
Dont scold the locust while pointing at the mulberry.
Mother He was eaten up with jealousy of senior maids such as Xiren and Qingwen, who had more prestige and authority in the different compounds than she.
Fearing them and forced to defer to them, she could only work off her rage and resentment on others.
Now the sight of Ouguan, to whom her sister had such an aversion, added fuel to the fire of the anger.
Chunyan set off in tears to Happy Red Court.
Afraid that if questioned she would explain why she was crying and make Qingwen angry again, her mother shouted frantically Come back!
Ive something to tell you.
But Chunyan kept right on.
Her mother in desperation chased after her.
When the girl turned and saw her, she broke into a run then Mother He, in hot pursuit, slipped on the moss and fell at which the other three girls burst out laughing.
In disgust, Yinger tossed all her flowers and twigs into the stream and went back to her room, while Chunyans aunt crossly invoked the aid of Buddha.
May a thunderbolt strike the wicked little bitch, spoiling all those flowers!
she swore.
She then picked more flowers to take to the various apartments.
Meanwhile Chunyan, running into Happy Red Court, bumped into Xiren setting off to call on Daiyu.
She caught hold of her, begging Save me, miss!
My mothers beating me again.
Annoyed to see Mother He close behind, Xiren said, You beat your foster-daughter one day, your own daughter the next.
Are you showing off how many daughters you have?
Or do you really not know the rules here?
The woman, although only recently come to the Garden, had sized up Xiren as quiet and good-tempered.
You dont understand, miss, so dont meddle in our affairs, she retorted.
Youre the ones who spoil them.
Just mind your own business.
She chased after Chunyan then to beat her again.
While Xiren indignantly turned back into the courtyard.
Sheyue, hanging up handkerchiefs under the crab-apple tree, had overheard the commotion.
Never mind her, sister, she said.
What can she do?
She signed to Chunyan, who took the hint and ran straight to Baoyu.
Well, wonders will never cease!
declared the maids.
Sheyue urged the woman, Steady on.
Do us a favour, wont you, and calm down.
Mother He saw that her daughter had darted up to Baoyu, who had taken her hand.
Dont be afraid Ill protect you, he promised her.
Chunyan told him tearfully all that had just happened to her and Yinger.
This only made Baoyu more exasperated.
Why not simply fool about here?
he asked.
Why must you even annoy our relative?
Sheyue observed to the company at large, We cant blame her for telling us not to meddle in their business.
Not knowing the facts, weve no right to interfere.
Wed better ask someone who can cope to come and deal with this.
Thats the only way to convince her and teach her manners.
She turned and ordered a young maid, Go and fetch Pinger here.
If shes busy, ask Mrs. Lin to come.
As the little girl left on this errand, the older servant-maids gathered round Mother He.
Quick, sister!
they urged.
Ask the young ladies to call that child back.
If Miss Pinger comes, youre in for trouble.
Whichever Miss Pinger comes I must have justice, blustered the woman.
No one has any right to stop a mother teaching her own daughter a lesson.
Dont you know who this Miss Pinger is?
the others retorted.
Shes the one in Madam Lians household.
If shes in a good mood she may let you off with a short scolding.
If shes in a bad mood, sister, youre in for it!
The little maid came back at this point to report, Miss Pingers busy just now.
When she asked what had happened and I told her, she said In that case drive her out, and tell Mrs. Lin to give her forty strokes with a cane at the side gate.
Dismissal was the last thing Mother He wanted.
Tears streaming down her cheeks, she pleaded with Xiren and the rest It wasnt easy for me to get this job.
Im a lone widow doing my very best to serve you all faithfully here and save my family a little expense.
If I leave, I shall have to fend for myself and wont be able to manage.
Seeing the state she was in, Xiren relented.
You want to stay yet wont keep the rules or do as youre told, beating people right and left, she said.
How did we come to take on someone so stupid?
These endless rows make people laugh at us.
Dont listen to her, put in Qingwen.
Send her packing, thats the only thing to do.
Who has the time to argue with her?
Be kind!
the woman pleaded.
Lay up virtue in heaven!
I was wrong, but in future Ill do whatever you young ladies tell me.
She prompted Chunyan, This comes of my beating you.
Not really beating you either, yet now Im the one smarting for it.
Put in a good word for me too., Baoyu took pity on her then and agreed to let her stay on.
But no more of these scenes!
he warned her.
After thanking them each in turn, Mother He left.
And then Pinger arrived on the scene to ask what had happened.
Its all over now, Xiren told her.
We can forget it.
Pinger smiled.
Its best to be easy on people saves trouble, she approved.
The mistresses have been away for a few days only, yet weve heard of nothing but squabbles of all sorts in every household before ones over the next one crops up.
I just dont know how Im to cope.
I thought we were the only ones, remarked Xiren.
I didnt know thered been other rows too.
This business of yours is nothing, rejoined Pinger.
I was just listing to Madam You all the troubles thereve been in the last three or four days eight or nine of them big and small.
This little tiff of yours is nothing it doesnt count.
Thereve been far more serious or ridiculous rows.
Xiren asked what she was referring to.
To know Pingers answer you must read the next chapter.
Chapter 60 Jasmine Powder Is Substituted for Rose-Nitric Powder Rose Flavoured Juice Is Repaid with Pachyma Cocos Xiren asked Pinger what trouble there had been.
Oh, a lot of nonsense that no one could conceive of!
was the reply.
Ill tell you some other day.
Right now Im too busy, and things arent straightened out either.
As she was speaking, in came a maid sent by Li Wan.
Is Sister Pinger here?
she asked.
My mistress is waiting for you.
Whats keeping you?
Coming, coming!
responded Pinger, hurrying out.
Xiren and the others commented jokingly, With her mistress ill shes in such great demand, everyones trying to grab her.
Once Pinger had gone, Baoyu suggested to Chunyan, Why not take your mother over to Miss Baochais place to say a few kind words to Yinger, so that she doesnt feel too wronged.
Chunyan agreed to this, going out with her mother, and Baoyu called again to her through the window, Mind you dont mention it in front of Miss Baochai, or Yinger may get scolded instead!
Mother He and her daughter assented and left, chatting as they walked along.
I kept telling you, ma, but you never believed me, said Chunyan.
Why land yourself in trouble like this?
Go on, you little bitch, chuckled her mother.
As the proverb says We learn from experience.
I understand now, so dont keep on at me.
If youd just know your place and mind your own business here, ma, in the long run youd gain a whole lot by it, went on Chunyan.
Let me tell you something Baoyu often says that hes going to ask the mistress to send all of us working here whether inside or outside back to our own parents.
Isnt that fine?
Did he really say that?
her mother asked eagerly.
-392 Why should anyone tell such a lie?
Chunyan retorted.
Buddha be praised!
Buddha be praised!
cried her mother.
When they reached Alpinia Park, Baochai, Daiyu and Aunt Xue were having a meal.
As Yinger had gone to make tea, the two of them went straight to find her.
I was talking too wildly just now, said Mother He ingratiatingly.
Please dont hold it against me, miss.
Ive come now specially to apologize.
Yinger, smiling, offered them seats and poured them some tea.
But saying that they had business they took their leave and were starting back when Ruiguan hurried out after them.
Auntie!
Sister!
she called.
Wait a minute.
Coming up to them she gave them a packet, explaining that this was some rose-nitric powder for Fangguan.
How small-minded of you, really!
chuckled Chunyan.
Do you imagine she cant get this in our place that you have to send her a packet?
What she gets there is one thing, retorted Ruiguan, but this is a present from me.
Do take it back for her.
Chunyan had to accept it then.
When she and her mother got back, Jia Huan and Jia Cong had just called to see Baoyu.
Ill go in by myself, ma, said Chunyan.
Youd better keep out.
Her mother, now completely under her thumb, did not venture to oppose her.
When Baoyu saw that Chunyan was back he nodded to her and she took the hint, holding her tongue.
After standing there for a few minutes she turned and went out, signalling to Fangguan to join her, then quietly told her what Ruiguan had said and handed over the powder.
Baoyu, having nothing to say to Cong and Huan, asked Fangguan presently what she had in her hand and readily showing it to him she explained that it was rose-nitric powder for a spring rash.
It was kind of her to think of it, he remarked.
Jia Huan hearing this craned his neck to have a look, and when he smelt how fragrant the powder was he stooped to pull a sheet of paper out of his boot.
Give me half of it.
wont you, good brother?
he wheedled.
Baoyu felt obliged to comply, but Fangguan was unwilling to part with a gift from Ruiguan.
Dont you touch this!
she cried.
Ill fetch you some from elsewhere.
Baoyu smiled understandingly as he wrapped the powder up again.
Bring it quickly then, he said.
Fangguan took the packet and put it away, then went to her dressing-case to look for her own powder.
When she opened the case, however, she found the box empty.
There was still some this morning.
Where has it all gone?
she wondered.
The other maids when questioned did not know.
Why try to track it down just now?
asked Sheyue.
Someone in this place must have run out of hers and taken it.
Just give them something else, it doesnt matter what they wont know the difference.
Hurry up and get rid of those boys so that we can have our meal.
So Fangguan wrapped up a packet of jasmine powder and took it to Jia Huan but when he eagerly held out his hand for it she tossed it on to the kang, forcing him to pick it up himself.
Having put it in his pocket he took his leave.
In the absence of Jia Zheng, Lady Wang and the rest, Jia Huan had been playing truant from school for several days on the pretext of illness.
Now that he had this powder he went off in high spirits to find Caiyun, who happened just then to be chatting with Concubine Zhao.
Beaming, he told the girl Ive got something good here for you to powder your face with.
Youve often said that rose-nitric powder is better for skin trouble than that nitric concoction bought outside.
Have a look and see if this is the right stuff.
Caiyun opened the packet and promptly burst out laughing.
Who gave you this?
she asked.
Jia Huan explained how he had acquired it.
They were fooling you because youre such a bumpkin, she chuckled.
This isnt rose-nitric powder, its jasmine powder.
Jia Huan examined it, and saw that it was pink er than the powder he had been shown, but equally fragrant.
Well, its good stuff just the same, he retorted.
Keep it to powder your face.
Its better than anything you can get outside.
So Caiyun accepted it.
How could she give you anything good?
sneered Concubine Zhao at this point.
Who told you to go there begging?
No wonder they made a fool of you.
If I were you, Id take it back and throw it in her face.
Nows the time, while some have gone to the funeral and others are ill in bed, to raise a rumpus and let no one have any peace.
This way we can get our own back.
Two months from now they wont rake it up again.
Even if they do, you can have an answer ready.
Baoyu is your elder brother, so if you dont dare tackle him, never mind but are you afraid of those cats and dogs in his place too?
Jia Huan hung his head.
Why stir up more trouble?
put in Caiyun quickly.
Whatever happens, wed better put up with it.
Dont you barge in, retorted Concubine Zhao.
This has nothing to do with you.
Better seize this chance, while weve got a good excuse, to bawl out those dirty bitches.
Pointing at Jia Huan she spat out, You spineless wretch, you deserve to be bullied by that scum!
If I say a word against you or give you the wrong thing by mistake, you toss your head in a rage and throw a tantrum, your eyes popping out of your head but now that these sluts make fun of you, you take it lying down.
Do you expect anyone in this family to have any respect for you in future?
Youre so useless, I blush for you.
Jia Huan, though ashamed and annoyed, was afraid to do as she said.
He brushed it aside.
You can talk, but you dont dare go either, he muttered.
You just want me to go and have a row with them.
If they report me to our school and I get a beating, of course you wont feel the pain.
Each time youve egged me on and trouble came of it so that I got beaten or cursed, youve always kept quiet.
Now youre egging me on again to quarrel with those servant-girls.
Arent you afraid of Third Sister?
If you have the guts to go, Ill have more respect for you.
This touched his mother on the raw.
Why should I be afraid of a creature I spawned myself?
she snapped.
If I were thered be even more rows here.
She grabbed the packet and dashed off towards the Garden.
Caiyun, unable to stop her no matter how hard she tried, made herself scarce while Jia Huan slipped out of the ceremonial gate and went off to amuse himself elsewhere.
Concubine Zhao stormed straight into the Garden where she ran into Mother Xia, Ouguans foster-mother, who seeing the rage she was in asked where she was going.
Just look at this household!
fumed the concubine.
Even those little singsong girls brought in to put on shows every other day treat some people better than others, taking advantage of those who have less weight.
If it had been anyone else I wouldnt have minded, but how can I let that little whore get the upper hand of us?
This struck a chord in Mother Xias heart.
She hastily asked what had happened, and was told how Fangguan had made a fool of Jia Huan by giving him jasmine powder instead of rose-nitric powder.
Is that all, madam?
exclaimed Mother Xia.
Have you only just woken up to them?
Why, thats nothing!
Yesterday they were even burning paper money here on the sly, and Baoyu stood up for them.
But if other people bring something in they say its forbidden, unclean or taboo.
So isnt burning paper money taboo here?
Just think, apart from the mistress, theres nobody higher than you in this house only you wont use your authority, so nobodys afraid of you.
Now what I suggest is this.
As those young whores are low-class girls it wont matter offending them.
So seize hold of these two things theyve done to teach them a lesson, and Ill back you up as a witness.
This way you can assert your authority, and other issues will be easier to handle.
The mistresses and the young ladies can hardly side with those singsong girls against you.
This made Concubine Zhao feel in a stronger position.
I didnt know about that business of burning paper.
Tell me the details, she said.
Mother Xia accordingly told her all that had happened.
Just go ahead and trounce them, she concluded.
If theres a row, well back you up., Emboldened by this, Concubine Zhao made her way confidently to Happy Red Court.
It so happened that Baoyu had gone to call on Daiyu, having heard that she was in, and Fangguan was having a meal with Xiren and the others.
When the concubine came in they all stood up to greet her and offer her a seat, after which they asked her business.
Instead of answering, she stepped forward and threw the powder in Fangguans face.
You trollop!
she swore, pointing a finger at her.
We bought you with our money to train as an actress.
Youre nothing but a painted whore.
Even the lowest slave in our house ranks higher than you, yet you make up to some people and look down on others.
When Baoyu wants to give someone a present you stop him, as if it were your property.
And you fob this stuff off on my son, imagining he doesnt know the difference.
Theyre both sons of the house, young masters.
Who are you to treat him like dirt?
This was more than Fangguan could take.
There was no rose powder left, she sobbed.
Thats why I gave him this.
If Id told him there wasnt any more, he most likely wouldnt have believed me.
Isnt this good powder too?
Even if I did train as an actress, I never performed outside.
Im only a girl what do I know about painted whores?
Youve no call to swear at me, madam.
You didnt buy me.
Were all birds of a feather all slaves here.
Why go for me?
Xiren pulled her away, remonstrating, Dont talk such nonsense!
The concubine was so angry that she darted forward and slapped Fangguan on both cheeks.
Xiren hastily intervened.
Shes just a child with no sense, madam.
Let her be!
Well give her a good talking to presently.
After being slapped, however, Fangguan would not keep quiet.
She flew into a tantrum, wailing and screaming Who are you to beat me?
Take a look at yourself in the mirror first.
Id sooner die than let a hag like you beat me!
She threw herself at Concubine Zhao and dared her to slap her again.
As the others tried to quiet her and pull her away, Qingwen gently tugged at Xirens sleeve.
Leave them alone, she whispered.
Let them make a row and see what comes of it.
Everythings at sixes and sevens now, with so many people trying to have the whip hand, taking it in turn to throw their weight about.
This sort of thing cant go on.
The attendants outside who had come with Concubine Zhao were each and all delighted to hear this row.
High time too!
they crowed.
Buddha be praised!
As for the old women who had a grudge against the actresses, they all gloated too at the sight of Fangguan being beaten.
Meanwhile Ouguan and Ruiguan were amusing themselves together.
When Kuiguan, the warrior actress assigned to Xiangyun, and Douguan assigned to Baoqin heard of this fracas, they rushed to find the two of them.
Fangguans being bullied!
they cried.
How can we put up with that?
Lets all go and have a first-class row to get our own back!
Being all of them so childish, their one thought was to avenge their friend without worrying about the consequences, and so they ran together to Happy Red Court.
First Douguan butted Concubine Zhao with her head, very nearly knocking her down.
The other three swarmed round as well, weeping and wailing, tearing at her and butting her, so that she was surrounded on all sides.
Qingwen and the other maids, laughing, only made a show of trying to intervene.
As for Xiren, she was frantic.
But as she pulled one away another rushed forward.
Are you out of your minds?
she demanded.
If you have some complaint, say so quietly.
How can you carry on in this crazy way?
Concubine Zhao was helpless.
All she could do was pour out a flood of abuse.
Ruiguan and Ouguan, one on each side of her, had pinioned both her arms while Kuiguan and Douguan, one in front and one behind, were butting her with their heads.
Youll have to kill all four of us!
they swore.
Fangguan, stretched out on the ground, was crying as if she were about to die.
During this burly-burly, Qingwen had sent Chunyan to report it to Tanchun.
So now Madam You, Li Wan and Tanchun came over with Pinger and some older serving-women.
They ordered the four actresses to lay off, and asked what the trouble was.
Concubine Zhao, nearly bursting with rage, her eyes, bulging, broke into an incoherent diatribe.
Madam You and Li Wan paid no attention to her, simply ordering the four girls to keep quiet.
Tanchun sighed.
What a fuss about nothing!
she said.
You lose your temper, madam, too easily.
I was just wanting to consult you about something, and was surprised when the maids told me they couldnt find you.
So you were here all the time in one of your rages.
Please come along with me.
Madam You and Li Wan chimed in with a smile, Please come to the hall, and we can talk things over.
Concubine Zhao had no choice but to go with the three of them, still muttering and maundering.
Those girls are playthings, said Tanchun.
If we like them we can chat and joke with them if we dont we can ignore them.
If they misbehave its like being scratched by a cat or a puppy, and we should overlook it whenever possible.
If its something inexcusable, we should just tell the stewards wives to punish them.
Why lower ourselves to raise a hullabaloo?
This is so undignified!
Look at Concubine Zhou.
Why is it that no one takes advantage of her, and she doesnt go round hounding other people either?
My advice to you, madam, is to go back to your rooms and get your temper under control.
Dont listen to malicious trouble-makers, or youll just make yourself a laughing-stock by doing other peoples dirty work for nothing.
Even if youre bursting with anger, put up with it for a few days.
When the mistress comes back shell straighten everything out.
Concubine Zhao had nothing to say in reply to this lecture and had to go home.
Then Tanchun turned indignantly to Li Wan and Madam You.
Shes so old, yet the way she carries on makes it impossible for anyone to respect her.
Was it worth rampaging in such an undignified fashion over such a trifle?
She has no sense of dignity and is too gullible.
She never uses her head.
Those shameless slaves must have egged her on again to do this, using her because shes a fool to get their own back.
The more she thought about it, the angrier she felt.
So she ordered the serving-women to find out who was at the bottom of this business.
They had to agree, but once outside they smiled at each other and said This is like looking for a needle in the ocean!
They summoned Concubine Zhaos maids and all those in the Garden for questioning, but each denied any knowledge of how this had started.
At a loss, they had to report to Tanchun their failure to find the culprit, but promised to make further investigations, to inform her of any irresponsible talk, and to have the offender punished.
Tanchun was gradually calming down when Aiguan slipped in to see her.
Its Mother Xia whos got her knife into us all and is always stirring up trouble, she confided.
The other day, she accused Ouguan of burning sacrificial paper but luckily Baoyu said hed asked her to do it, and that silenced the old creature.
Today, when I brought you your handkerchief, I noticed her gabbing away with Concubine Zhao.
She only went away when she saw me coming.
Although this sounded suspicious to Tanchun, she knew that Aiguan and the other girls belonged to one set and were very mischievous too so after hearing her out, she was unwilling to use this as proof.
Now Mother Xias grand-daughter Chanjie also served in Tanchuns apartments and often bought things or ran errands for the maids there, all of whom liked her.
After her meal that day, Tanchun went to the hail to attend to some business and Cuimo, left at home in charge, told Chanjie to go and send a page to buy some cakes.
Ive just swept a whole big courtyard and my legs and back are aching, objected Chanjie.
Cant you get someone else to go?
Who else is there?
countered Cuimo.
Go while its still early.
And let me give you a word of advice on your way to the back gate, tell your grandma to be on her guard.
Then she explained how Aiguan had been telling tales about Mother Xia.
Taking the money from her Chanjie snorted, So that little bitch wants to get us into trouble too!
Wait till I tell my grandma this.
With that she went off to the back gate.
She found all the kitchen-maids, Mother Xia among them, sitting chatting on the steps there, as they were free for a while.
She asked one of the women to go and buy the cakes.
Then, fulminating, she passed on to her grandmother what she had just been told.
Mother Xia, both angry and frightened, wanted to go and challenge Aiguan and to complain to Tanchun.
Chanjie quickly stopped her.
What would you say if you went, grandma?
she asked.
How did you get to know about it?
Carping and complaining would only cause more trouble.
Im just telling you so that youll be on your guard.
Dont go rushing off in such a hurry.
As she was speaking, along came Fangguan.
Leaning on the gate she called pleasantly to Mrs. Liu in the kitchen Mrs. Liu, Master Bao says hed like a cool, vinegary vegetable dish for supper but dont put in sesame oil that would make it greasy.
All right, answered Mrs. Liu.
How come you were sent on this errand today?
If you dont think our place too dirty, come in and chat for a bit.
Fangguan had just entered the kitchen when a woman came along carrying a plate of cakes.
Whose hot cakes are these?
asked the girl jokingly.
Let me try one.
Chanjie promptly took the plate.
These were bought for other people, she said.
You wouldnt care for this stuff.
Mrs. Liu seeing this quickly put in, If you like such things, miss, Ive some here freshly bought for my daughter.
She hasnt eaten any yet so theyre still here, clean and untouched.
She brought out another plate for Fangguan, adding, Wait, Ill brew you some good tea.
While she went in to poke up the fire and make tea, Fangguan took a cake and thrust it under Chanjies nose.
Who wants your cake?
Isnt this cake too?
she demanded.
I was only joking, but I wouldnt eat yours even if you kowtowed to me.
She crumbled the cake into pieces then and tossed these to the sparrows, calling out, You mustnt feel hurt, Mrs. Liu.
Ill buy you another two catties presently.
Chanjie was first speechless with anger.
Then she snorted If the thunder god has eyes, why doesnt he strike such wicked people dead?
Shes deliberately needling me!
Of course, I cant compare with the likes of you who have people sending you presents, offering to be your slaves and flattering you, in the hope that, if need be, youll put in a good word for them.
The older women intervened, Enough of that, you two.
Why bicker every time you meet?
A few of the more quick-witted, afraid this argument would lead to further trouble, quietly slipped away.
Chanjie, however, dared not say any more.
Grumbling to herself she went off.
When Mrs. Liu saw there was nobody about, she came out of the kitchen and asked Fangguan, Did you mention that matter I spoke of the other day?
Yes, I did, was the answer.
And Ill bring it up again in a couple of days.
But that old hag Zhao would choose this time for another row with me.
Did sister take that rose flavoured juice I brought the other day?
Is she any better?
Oh, yes, she drank it all and just loved it, but she doesnt like to ask you for more.
Thats nothing.
Ill get her some more.
The fact was that Mrs. Liu had a daughter just turned sixteen.
Although the daughter of a cook, she was just as good-looking as Pinger, Xiren, Yuanyang or Zijuan.
As she was the fifth child they called her Wuer but being delicate, she had never been given a job.
Recently Mrs. Liu had noticed that Baoyu had many attendants, whose work was light and she had heard that he meant to let all the girls in his service return to their own homes in future.
She wanted to send Wuer there as a maid but had no one to recommend her.
It so happened that she had worked in Pear Fragrance Court and been more assiduous than their foster-mothers in waiting on Fangguan and the other actresses, with the result that they were good to her too.
So now she had mentioned this request to Fangguan, asking her to pass it on to Baoyu.
And he had agreed.
Only, having been unwell recently and in view of all the troubles in the household, he had not yet referred the matter higher up.
Enough, however, of this.
Fangguan returned now to Happy Red Court and broached the subject again to Baoyu.
He had been away when Concubine Zhao made such a scene, and found himself in a difficult position, not knowing whether to intervene or not.
After the uproar died down and he heard that Tanchun had persuaded her to leave, he returned from Alpinia Park to comfort Fangguan, and at last everybody had calmed down again.
Now Fangguan came back and told him that she wanted some more rose flavoured juice for Liu Wuer.
He answered readily enough, Theres plenty.
I seldom drink it.
You can take her the whole lot.
He told Xiren to fetch it.
And seeing that there was not much left, he gave the whole bottle to Fangguan who took it away.
Mrs. Liu had just taken her daughter into the Garden to amuse her.
After strolling for a while in an out-of-the-way corner, they went back to the kitchen to rest and have some tea.
Now Fangguan came in with a small glass bottle about five inches high.
The light falling on it showed that it was almost half full of some red juice, which they assumed to be some of the Western port which Baoyu drank.
Sit down, while we fetch the pewter heater to warm it in a jiffy with hot water, they said.
This is all there is left, so hes given it you with the bottle, Fangguan explained.
Wuer realized then that it was the juice and accepted it with profuse thanks.
Asked if she was better she said, I do feel a bit more energetic today thats why I came here for a stroll.
Theres not much of interest at the back, though, only some big rocks and big trees and the back walls of the buildings.
I havent seen any of the real beauty spots yet.
Why didnt you go to the front?
asked Fangguan.
I wouldnt let her, said Mrs. Liu.
The young ladies dont know her.
If someone who has it in for us were to see her, that would lead to another row.
If in future, with your help, she gets a job, shell have so many chances to stroll around she may even get tired of the place.
Dont worry, replied Fangguan.
You can count on me.
Aiya, miss!
exclaimed Mrs. Liu.
Were of no account, not like you.
With that she served tea.
But as it was not to Fangguans taste, after just one sip she rose to take her leave.
I have my hands full here, said Mrs. Liu.
Wuer will see you off.
So Wuer went out with Fangguan, and seeing there was nobody about she tugged at her sleeve.
Did you really put in a word for me?
she asked.
Fangguan laughed.
Why should I fool you?
Ive heard there are definitely two vacancies in our compound.
One is Hongyus place Madam Lian took her away but hasnt yet sent anyone to replace her.
The other is Zhuiers, which is still vacant too.
So merely taking you on wouldnt count as too many.
Its just that Pinger keeps telling Xiren that any new requests for people or money shouldnt be raised yet awhile if possible, because Miss Tanchuns looking for someone to make an example of.
Even in her own quarters shes turned down two or three requests.
Right now shes on the look-out for something in our place to make an issue of so why should we jump into her trap?
And if we were turned down now, it would be hard to get the decision changed later.
Better wait for things to cool down.
When the old lady and the mistress are free, if we approach them first, no matter how big a favour we ask theyre bound to agree to it.
Even so, Im feeling too impatient to wait, said Wuer.
If I were to be chosen now, in the first place my mother d be able to hold up her head and feel she hadnt brought me up for nothing in the second, my monthly allowance would make things easier for our family in the third, Id feel happier myself and my health might well improve.
Even if I still had to see doctors and buy medicine, I neednt spend the familys money on it.
I understand, said Fangguan.
Just dont worry.
Then the two of them went their different ways.
Wuer, back home, told her mother how very grateful she was to Fangguan.
I never thought wed get all that juice, said Mrs. Liu.
Though this is expensive stuff, if you take too much it will increase the hot humours, so why not give some away?
That would make a very handsome gift.
Give it to whom?
To your cousin.
Hes been having a fever and was wanting something like this.
Ill take him half a cup.
Wuer remained silent while her mother poured out half a cup and put the bottle with what was left in the cupboard.
Then she said with a faint smile If I were you, I wouldnt send it.
If people asked where it came from thered be more trouble.
Why should we be afraid of that?
After all our hard work, if our masters give us something its only right.
We didnt steal this, did we?
So ignoring her daughters advice, she went straight off to the house of her elder brother outside, where her nephew was lying in bed.
When they saw what she had brought, her brother, sister-in-law and nephew were all delighted.
Cold water was drawn from the well to mix with the tonic, and the invalid drinking a bowl of it found it extremely refreshing.
What was left in the cup was covered with a piece of paper and put on the table.
Now it happened that a few of the Jia family pages who were friendly with the young patient called to see how he was.
Among them was Qian Huai, a nephew of Concubine Zhao, both of whose parents worked in the counting-house, and whose own job was escorting Jia Huan to school.
No wife had yet been found for him and as he had taken a fancy to pretty Wuer he told his parents he would like to marry her.
Time and again they had sent a go-between to propose the match and as they were in easy circumstances and fairly well connected, Liu and his wife were quite willing, but they could not get Wuers consent.
Though she did not say so outright, her attitude was so clear that her parents could not accept the offer for her.
Recently, moreover, since they hoped she would get a job in the Garden they had let the matter drop, assuming that after a few years when she was released from service she would choose someone else outside.
And the Qian family, in view of this situation, had given up the idea too.
Only Qian Huai, angry and mortified by his failure, had resolved that he must have his way and get Wuer as his wife.
He had come with the others today to see his friend, never expecting to find Mrs. Liu there too.
When Mrs. Liu saw all these new arrivals, with Qian Huai among them, she rose on the pretext of business to take her leave.
Have some tea first, her brother and sister-in-law urged her.
It was very good of you to think of your nephew.
Itll soon be time to serve dinner in the Garden.
Ill come to see him again when Im free, she answered.
Then her sister-in-law took a packet from a drawer and saw her out.
Having reached the corner of the wall, she gave the packet to Mrs. Liu.
Yesterday your brother was on duty at the gate.
she said.
For five days before that everything was so quiet that he didnt get any tips only yesterday an official from Guangdong called and presented two small baskets of pachyma cocos for the masters, and another basket for the men at the gate.
This is your brothers share.
Down south there they have so many ancient firs, they just extract the essence of the fungus on the roots and mix it with some kind of medicine to make this handsome snowy white pachyma cocos powder.
They say if you mix it with human milk and drink a cup first thing every day, its the best tonic you could have.
If you havent human milk, cows milk is next best or failing that even boiling water will do.
We thought it would be just the thing for your daughter, and I sent a maid this morning to take it to you but she said your door was locked and youd taken Wuer with you into the Garden.
Id been meaning to call to see how she was and take it her myself.
But knowing that with the mistresses away theres a strict watch everywhere, I thought as Id no special business Id better not go.
Besides, Ive heard that the last two days youve had a lot of upsets in the Garden and I didnt want to get mixed up in anything.
So Im very glad you came.
You can take this back now yourself.
Mrs. Liu thanked her, took her leave and went back.
As she approached the side gate, a boy called out to her Where have you been, auntie?
Theyve been asking for you several times inside.
Three or four of us have been looking for you everywhere the others arent back yet.
But this isnt the way to your house.
This seems rather suspicious.
You monkey!
chuckled Mrs. Liu.
To know what followed, read the next chapter.
Chapter 61 Baoyu Covers Up a Girls Theft to Protect His Sister Pinger Wields Authority to Right a Wrong You monkey!
chuckled Mrs. Liu.
If your aunt goes to find a lover that means one more uncle for you whats wrong with that?
Dont make me tear out that tuft of mangy hair stuck on your head like the lid of chamberpot.
Hurry up!
Open the gate and let me in.
Instead of doing so, the young rascal went on teasing.
When you go in, auntie, do filch a few apricots for me.
Ill wait for you here.
If you forget, dont expect me to open the gate for you in future, when you want to buy wine or oil in the middle of the night.
I wont even answer you, just leave you to shout yourself hoarse.
Mrs. Liu spat.
Youre crazy!
she scoffed.
This years not like the old days.
Everything here has been put in the care of different women, every single one of them spoiling for a fight.
Just walk under a tree, and they glare like broody hens.
How can you touch their fruit?
The other day I was walking under a plum tree when a bee brushed past my face, and just as I flapped it away that aunt of yours spotted me.
She was too far away to see what I was doing and thought I was picking plums, so she let out a screech, then started squawking at the top of her voice that this fruit hadnt yet been offered to Buddha, that Their Ladyships being away hadnt tasted it yet, and that after the best had been sent to the mistress the rest of us would get our share, carrying on as if I were dying for her plums!
I didnt take it too kindly, sol gave her tit for tat.
But you have several aunts in charge of things here.
Why not ask them for what you want?
Why apply to me?
This is like the rat in the barn who asked a crow for grain, as if a bird on the wing had some while the rat living in the barn had none.
Aiyaya!
chortled the boy.
If you cant help, you cant.
Why all this palaver?
Think you wont need me in future?
If your daughter does get a good post, seems to me shell be wanting our help even more often, and only if we give it will she do all right.
So youre up to monkey tricks again, little wretch!
What good post is my daughter going to get?
The boy laughed.
Dont try to fool me.
I know all about it.
Think youre the only ones with connections inside?
We have ours too.
Though my own posts out here, I have a couple of sisters who count for something in the Garden too.
So, how can any secret be kept from us?
Just then another old woman inside called out, Hurry up, you young rascals, and go and fetch your Aunt Liu before its too late.
Not stopping to bandy any more words with the boy, Mrs. Liu hastily opened the gate and went in, saying Dont worry, Im coming.
She headed straight for the kitchen, where some other cooks shirking responsibility had been waiting for her to decide what dishes to send to the different apartments.
Wheres Wuer?
Mrs. Liu asked.
Shes just gone to the boiler-house to look for the other girls, they told her.
Mrs. Liu, having put the pachyma flour away, was busy allotting the dishes for different quarters when Yingchuns little maid Lianhua came in.
Sister Siqi says she wants a bowl of beaten eggs very lightly steamed, she announced.
You would ask for a rarity!
remarked Mrs. Liu.
Theres such a shortage of eggs this year, goodness knows why, they cost ten cash each, and even at that price theyre hard to get.
Yesterday the order came down to send food to the families of relatives, and several purveyors went out yet only managed to get two thousand eggs.
So where am Ito find eggs?
Go and tell her she can have them some other time.
The other day when she asked for beancurd, you sent over some which was rancid, protested Lianhua.
She gave me a scolding for that.
Now she wants eggs and you say you havent any.
Whats so precious about eggs?
I dont believe you havent even got eggs, Ill have a look.
She marched over to open the chest containing provisions, and sure enough found a dozen eggs in it.
There you are!
she cried.
Why should you be so tightfisted?
What we eat is the share given us by our mistresses why should it worry you?
You didnt lay those eggs.
Why take on so if people eat them?
Mrs. Liu at once put down what she was holding and went over to confront her.
Stop talking rubbish!
she cried.
Your mothers the one who lays eggs!
These few are all weve got left for making sauce with.
Theyre for emergencies.
Unless the young ladies ask for some, I wont use them.
If youve eaten them all up, therell be a fine to do!
You girls living shut away in the inner compounds take everything for granted.
You may think eggs are easily come by, knowing nothing about conditions outside in the market.
Not to say eggs, there are some days when theres not so much as a blade of grass to be had.
Take my advice and be satisfied with the fine rice, fat hens and big ducks you get every day.
Youre so sated with all that rich food, though, that you pester us all the time for something different eggs and beancurd, or gluten of wheat and salted turnips.
You certainly know how to vary your menu!
But its not my job to cater specially for you.
If each place asks for a different dish, that comes to over ten dishes.
Id better stop looking after our first-grade mistresses so as to devote myself to you second-grade mistresses.
Whos been asking for new dishes every day?
shouted Lianhua, her face scarlet.
Are you never going to stop ranting?
If we get you a job here, of course we expect a little consideration.
The other day when Xiaoyan told you that Sister Qingwen would like some artemisia, you immediately asked whether she wanted it fried with pork or with chicken.
Xiaoyan said anything with meat was no good what was why she asked for artemisia fried with gluten of wheat with as little oil as possible.
At once you cursed yourself for being so dense and hastily washed your hands to cook the dish, taking it there yourself like a dog wagging its tail.
Yet today you pick on me in front of all these people!
Gracious Buddha!
cried Mrs. Liu.
All those here can bear witness.
Not to say the other day, but ever since this kitchen was set up last year, any apartment wanting something extra has always brought money to buy it.
Sometimes we had what was wanted, sometimes we didnt.
It may sound as if Ive got a cushy job, with perks too, just catering for the young mistresses.
Just work it out, though, and its really sickening.
The young ladies plus their maids come to forty or fifty people, yet each day we get only a couple of hens, a couple of ducks, some dozen catties of meat and one string of cash worth of vegetables.
Figure it out for yourselves how far will that go.
Its not even enough for the two fixed meals, so how can it be stretched to cover extras ordered by you girls?
And you wont take what weve bought but want us to go out and buy other things.
The way things are, wed better ask the mistress for more money so that we can do as they do in the big kitchen catering for the old lady put down all the known dishes on the menu, prepare different dishes every day, and settle the accounts at the end of each month.
The other day Miss Tanchun and Miss Baochai took it into their heads to have some fried wolfberry sprouts, and sent over a maid with five hundred cash.
I couldnt help laughing and told her, Even if the two young ladies had bellies as big as a Buddha, they couldnt eat five hundred cash worth.
Itll only cost twenty to thirty cash and that we can afford.
So I sent the money back, but they wouldnt take it, giving it to me as a tip to buy wine with.
And they said, Now that the kitchens inside the Garden, some of our people may go and pester you for things like salt or bean-sauce, all of which cost money.
You can hardly refuse them but if you give them what they want youll lose out.
So take this money to make good the arrears theyve let you in for.
Theyre such considerate, understanding young ladies, those two, we can only pray to Buddha in our hearts to bless such kind mistresses.
But when Concubine Zhao heard of this, she flew into a rage and fumed that I was getting too many perks.
In less than ten days she kept sending over a maid to ask for this, that and the other.
I laughed to myself So you think this gives you the excuse to demand one thing after another.
How can I afford so much?
As they were arguing, Siqi sent someone over to find Lianhua.
Is she dead that she hasnt come back yet?
she asked.
Lianhua went back then in a huff to tell Siqi all that had been said, embroidering her account too.
The result was that Siqi flared up.
As soon as she had finished serving Yingchuns meal she took the young maids with her to the kitchen, where they found the kitchen-maids having their own meal.
When Siqi stormed in, the women stood up and asked her to take a seat, but she ordered the younger maids to ransack the place.
Just throw all the eatables in their chests and cupboards to the dogs, she cried, so that no one gets any perks.
At the word of command, the young maids crowded forward and started turning the whole place upside down.
The kitchen-maids tried frantically to stop them.
Dont believe what those children say, miss, they begged Siqi.
Even if Mrs. Liu had nine lives shed never dare offend you.
Honestly, eggs are hard to buy this year.
Weve just been scolding her for being so stupid whatever shes asked for, she ought to make shift to get it.
Now shes realized her mistake and steamed the eggs.
If you dont believe us, look on the stove.
This soft talk gradually mollified Siqi, and the young maids were led away before they could smash everything.
Having continued to make a scene for a while, Siqi finally let herself be persuaded to leave.
Mrs. Liu could only clatter bowls and dishes as she grumbled to herself but when the bowl of eggs was steamed and sent over, Siqi emptied it on the ground.
However, the maid who had taken it kept silent about this on her return, for fear of causing fresh trouble.
Mrs. Liu now gave her daughter some soup and half a bowl of porridge, then explained to her about the pachyma flour.
Wuer decided to share the gift with Fangguan so she wrapped up half of it in a piece of paper and as it was now growing dark, with few people about, slipped through the flowers and willows to find her friend.
Luckily she was challenged by no one on her way to Happy Red Court.
Once there, however, she was afraid to go in.
She stood waiting in front of a rose bush some distance away until, after the time it would take for a cup of tea, Xiaoyan happened to come out.
Wuer ran forward to call her.
Xiaoyan did not recognize who it was until Wuer came closer.
What are you doing here?
she asked.
Ask Fangguan to come out, urged Wuer.
Ive something to tell her.
Youre too impatient, sister, Xiaoyan whispered.
Just another ten days and youll be here.
Why keep on looking for her?
She was sent off on an errand to the front just now.
You can either wait for her, or let me pass on your message if youre in a hurry.
The Garden gate may be closed soon.
Wuer handed her the pachyma flour then, telling her how it should be taken and what it was good for.
Im just giving her part of some that was given to me, she explained.
Please be good enough to let her have it.
With that she took her leave and started back.
She had just reached Smartweed Bank when along came Lin Zhixiaos wife with a few serving-women.
Having no time to hide, Wuer had to step forward to greet them.
I heard you were ill, said Mrs. Lin.
What are you doing here?
The last couple of days Ive felt better, so I came here with my mother for a little change.
Just now she sent me to Happy Red Court to deliver something.
I dont believe it, replied Mrs. Lin.
I just saw your mother go out, so I locked the gate.
If shed sent you on an errand, why didnt she tell me you were here?
Why should she let me lock the gate?
I really cant understand this.
You must be lying.
Wuer had nothing to say to that, so she faltered, My mother told me to send those things this morning, but I forgot and only just remembered.
I suppose she imagined Id already left thats why she didnt tell you.
Mrs. Lin saw how flustered and guilty she looked, and remembered Yuchuan telling her recently that things had disappeared from Lady Wangs rooms but the young maids there claimed to know nothing about it, and the culprit hadnt been found.
All this made her suspicious.
And just at this moment Chanjie and Lianhua arrived with several serving-women.
When they understood the situation, they said Youd better cross-examine her, Mrs. Lin.
Shes been creeping in here the last couple of days in a very sneaky way.
Goodness knows what shes up to.
Thats right, added Chanjie.
Yesterday Sister Yuchuan told me that cupboard in the mistress annex had been opened and quite a few odd things were missing.
And when Madam Lian sent Pinger to get some rose flavoured juice from Yuchuan, there was one bottle short.
They wouldnt have known if they hadnt been looking for it.
I didnt hear about that, put in Lianhua.
But today I saw a bottle of juice.
Since Xifeng had been sending Pinger every day to press Mrs. Lin to track down the thief, as soon as she heard this she asked Where did you see it?
In their kitchen, was Lianhuas answer.
At once Mrs. Lin told them to light the lantern and set off at their head to make a search.
In desperation then Wuer confessed, That was given me by Fangguan in Master Baos place.
I dont care who gave it you, snapped Mrs. Lin.
Now that we have evidence of the theft, I shall report it and you can explain it to the mistresses.
By this time they had entered the kitchen where Lianhua showed her the bottle.
Suspecting there might be other stolen goods there, they made a thorough search and found a packet of pachyma flour as well.
Picking up these things and taking Wuer with them, they went to report the business to Li Wan and Tanchun.
As Li Wans son Lan was ill, she had stopped attending to household affairs and told them to go and see Tanchun.
The latter had returned to her quarters, where she was washing in her room while her maids rested in the courtyard.
Shishu went in alone to report, coming out again after some time to say Ive told the young mistress.
She wants you to get Pinger to report this to Madam Lian.
Mrs. Lin had to lead them all off then to Xifengs quarters.
First she found Pinger, who went in to report the business to her mistress.
Xifeng had just retired for the night.
Upon hearing this news she ordered Give Wuers mother forty strokes with the cane and throw her out.
Shes never to set foot inside the inner gate again.
Give Wuer forty strokes too, and pack her off at once to the manor to be sold or married off.
When Pinger came out and passed on these instructions to Mrs. Lin, Wuer burst out weeping for tenor.
Kneeling to Pinger she told her all that she and Fangguan had done.
Thats easily checked on, said Pinger.
We shall find out whether shes telling the truth or not by questioning Fangguan tomorrow.
But this pachyma flour was sent in as a present only the other day, and it shouldnt have been unpacked until after Their Ladyships had come back and inspected it.
You shouldnt have stolen it.
Wuer hastily explained how the pachyma flour had been given them by her uncle.
If thats the case, said Pinger with a smile, then youve done nothing wrong but are being used as a scapegoat.
Well, its late now and my mistress has just taken her medicine and gone to bed we mustnt disturb her again over such a trifle.
Let the night-watchers keep an eye on Wuer tonight, and tomorrow after Ive told my mistress this well decide what to do.
Not daring to object, Mrs. Lin took Wuer out and handed her over to the women keeping watch that night, after which she went home.
Wuer, kept under guard, did not dare to stir hand or foot.
Some of the women on duty berated her for her bad conduct.
Others complained Its bad enough having to keep watch at night without having to guard a thief too if she should kill herself or escape while we werent looking, wed get into trouble.
Other women who were on bad terms with Mrs. Liu were delighted by this development, and they came to jeer at the girl too.
Wuer who had always been delicate, having no water to drink and nowhere to sleep that night, felt angry at being so unfairly treated, but there was nobody to whom to complain.
She sobbed the whole night through.
All those women who had it in for her and her mother were longing to have them thrown out straight away, for fear the decision might be changed the next day.
They got up early and went secretly to try to win Pinger over to their side, taking her presents, complimenting her on her competence and good judgement, and telling her all kinds of tales about Mrs. Liu.
Pinger heard them out in turn and sent them away.
Then she slipped over to see Xiren and find out whether it was true that Fangguan had given Wuer the rose flavoured juice.
I did give Fangguan some, said Xiren, but I dont know what she did with it.
Fangguan, when questioned, was startled into admitting that she had indeed given it to Wuer.
Then Fangguan told Baoyu, and he was worried too.
Though the rose juice business is cleared up, he said, if the pachyma flour is brought into it shell have to own up and when they know that her uncle got it at the gate hell be blamed.
They meant well, but well be getting them into trouble.
He lost no time in talking it over with Pinger.
The rose juice business is cleared up, he told her.
But theyre still in the wrong over the pachyma flour.
Why not just say, good sister, that this was given her by Fangguan too?
Then it will be all right.
Thats all very well, smiled Pinger.
But yesterday evening Wuer already admitted that it was a gift from her uncle so how can she say now that it was from you?
Besides, before the thief who stole the juice has been found, how can we let off the one caught with evidence and go looking for other culprits?
Who would own up?
People wouldnt be convinced either.
Qingwen joined in at this oint, saying.
That rose juice from the mistress place must obviously have been taken by Caiyun no one else could have stolen it to give Master Huan.
So stop making all these wild guesses.
Pinger chuckled, Of course, we know thats the case.
But now Yuchuans so frantic, shes crying.
If we asked Caiyun in confidence and she owned up, Yuchuan could stop worrying and everybody would forget about it.
Who wants to stir up trouble anyway?
But that wretch Caiyun not only wont admit it, shes accused Yuchuan of the theft.
Because of their back-biting and bickering the whole mansions heard of this business.
So how can we pretend that nothings happened?
We shall have to make investigations.
We all know that the one who reported the theft is the thief herself, but as theres no evidence how can we accuse her?
Never mind, said Baoyu.
Ill take the blame for that too.
Ill say I filched it on the sly from my mothers place to frighten them for fun.
Then both matters will be settled.
Xiren commented, Of course that would be a kind deed, clearing their reputations.
When the mistress hears about it, though, shell scold you again for having no sense and acting so childishly.
That doesnt matter so much, said Pinger with a smile.
Actually, I could easily find the evidence in Concubine Zhaos rooms, but I was afraid that would make another good person lose face.
Other people wouldnt mind, but shed certainly be angry.
It was her I was thinking of.
I didnt want to smash a jade vase to catch a rat.
While saying this she held out three fingers to indicate to Xiren and the others that it was the third young mistress, Tanchun, whom she had in mind.
Quite right, they said.
Better put the blame on us here.
Even so, proposed Pinger, we must call those two trouble-makers Caiyun and Yuchuan over, and get them to agree to this arrangement.
Otherwise theyll get off unscathed without knowing the reason, thinking instead that because I hadnt the gumption to get at the truth, I had to beg you people here to cover up the theft.
That would encourage one of them to go on stealing with impunity, the other to let things drift.
Thats true, agreed Xiren and the rest.
You must make it clear where we stand.
A messenger was sent by Pinger to fetch the two girls.
You dont have to worry, they were told.
Were found the culprit.
Where?
asked Yuchuan.
In Madam Lians place, Pinger told her.
She admits to everything, but I know quite well that she didnt steal those things the poor creatures confessed to it because shes frightened.
Master Bao here is sorry for her and means to take half the blame.
I could, of course, name the real thief, but it so happens that shes a good friend of mine.
I dont care much what happens to the receiver of the stolen goods, only this would damage a good persons reputation too so being in a quandary Im going to ask Master Bao to take the blame, so as to keep the rest of us out of trouble.
Now I want to know what you intend to do.
If you both agree to be more careful in future, so that nobody loses face, Ill ask Master Bao to take the blame.
If not, Ill report the truth to Madam Lian rather than wrong an innocent person.
Caiyun, at this, blushed with shame.
Dont worry, sister, she said.
Theres no need to wrong an innocent person, or to make a young lady who wasnt involved lose face.
It was Concubine Zhao who kept begging me to filch things, and I gave some of them to Master Huan thats the truth.
Even when the mistress is at home, we often take this or that to give to friends.
I thought after a couple of days this storm would blow over but I cant stand seeing an innocent person accused.
Youd better take me to the Second Mistress, and Ill make a clean breast of everything to her.
The others hearing this were impressed by her courage.
Thats very decent of Sister Caiyun, said Baoyu.
But theres no need for you to admit it Ill just say that I took it in secret to tease you all, and now that troubles come of it I should own up.
I simply ask you sisters to make less trouble in future.
That would be best for us all.
Why should you own up to something I did?
asked Caiyun.
Im the one, if anyone, who deserves to be punished.
Thats not the way to look at it, interposed Pinger and Xiren.
If you were to admit it youd have to let on about Concubine Zhao, and when Miss Tanchun heard of it shed feel bad again.
Better let Master Bao take the blame to keep us all out of trouble.
Apart from the few of us here, no one else need know about it isnt that much neater?
In future, though, we must all of us be more careful.
If you want to take anything, at least wait till the mistress is back then even if you give the whole house away, itll be no concern of ours.
Caiyun lowered her head in thought and then agreed.
After their plans were laid, Pinger took the two of them with Fangguan to the front where women kept watch at night and, having summoned Wuer, gave her secret instructions to say that the pachyma flour had also been a present from Fangguan.
After Wuer had poured out her thanks Pinger took them to her own quarters, where Mrs. Lin and some other serving-women had long been waiting, holding Mrs. Liu.
Mrs. Lin told Pinger, I brought her here first thing this morning.
For fear nobody would see to the young ladies morning meal, I sent Qin Xians wife to the Garden to take charge for the time being.
Why not suggest to the Second Mistress that Mrs. Qin, being clean and painstaking, might as well be assigned the job for keeps?
Who is Qin Xians wife?
asked Pinger.
I dont seem to know her.
Shes one of those who keep watch at night at the south gate of the Garden, Mrs. Lin answered.
She has nothing to do in the day time thats why you dont know her.
She has high cheekbones and big eyes, and is very clean and spry.
Thats right, put in Yuchuan.
How could you forget, sister?
Shes the aunt of Siqi who serves Miss Yingchun.
Though Siqis parents belong to the Elder Masters household, her uncle works here.
Pinger recollected the woman then and smiled.
Ah, if youd said that before Id have known, she said.
Still, youre in too much of a hurry to give her a job.
The fact is, this business is more or less solved weve even found out as well who took the things missing from the mistress place the other day.
It was Baoyu who went over there and asked those two wretched girls for something.
To tease him they said they dared not take anything with the mistress away so when they werent looking he went in and took the things.
Those silly creatures didnt know, thats why they got scared.
Now that Baoyu knows this has involved other people, hes told me the whole story and shown me the things he took theres nothing missing.
He got that pachyma flour outside as well, and shared it out to a whole lot of people, not just the girls in the Garden.
Even the nannies got some to take out for their relatives, some of whom passed it on to other people.
Xiren gave some to Fangguan and others too.
This was just doing friends a favour, nothing unusual.
As for those two baskets brought the other day, theyre still in the hall and the seals on them havent been broken so how can we accuse people of pilfering them?
Wait till Ive reported this to my mistress and then well see.
She went into the bedroom to tell Xifeng the same story.
Thats all very well, said Xifeng, but we know Baoyu.
He sticks up for those girls even if theyre in the wrong.
And if people appeal to him or flatter him crowning him with a charcoal basket hell agree to anything.
If we take his word for it and theres worse trouble of this kind in future, how are we to control these servants?
We must go on making detailed investigations.
My plan is to fetch all the maids from the mistress house here.
No need to torture or beat them we can just make them kneel in the sun on shards of porcelain with nothing to eat or drink.
If they dont come clean, theyll have to kneel all day.
Then even if theyre made of iron, in a day theyre bound to confess.
She added, Flies go for cracked eggs.
Even if this Liu woman didnt steal anything, she must have been up to something or people wouldnt have accused her.
Even if we dont punish her, we should dismiss her thats the usual court procedure.
It wouldnt be doing her an injustice.
Why trouble yourself over this?
countered Pinger.
We should be lenient whenever we can.
This isnt anything so important that you cant overlook it.
What I feel is this however hard you work over here, youll be going back eventually to the other house so why make enemies of the servants here, making them bear you a grudge?
Its not as if you havent troubles enough of your own.
You managed after years to conceive a son but lost him in the seventh month through a miscarriage brought on, for all we know, by overworking and getting too upset and worked up over things.
Wouldnt it be better, while its not too late, to shut your eyes to half of whats going on?
This advice made Xifeng smile.
All right, you little bitch, she said.
Do whatever you like.
Im just feeling slightly better I dont want to lose my temper.
Thats the right way to talk!
chuckled Pinger.
With that she went out to deal with the women outside one by one.
To know what happened later, read the next chapter.
Chapter 62 Sweet Xiangyun Sleep Tipsily Among Peonies Silly Xiangling Coyly Takes Off Her Pomegranate Skirt Pinger, going out as we saw, told Lin Zhixiaos wife, A prosperous family ought to minimize big scandals and overlook minor ones.
It wouldnt look good if we were to ring bells, beat drums and raise a rumpus over a trifle.
So take mother and daughter back now theyre to keep their jobs.
And send Qin Xians wife back as well.
Theres no need to say any more about this business.
Just make a careful inspection every day.
With that she left.
Mrs. Liu and Wuer hastily stepped forward to kowtow their thanks, after which Mrs. Lin took them back to the Garden and reported the matter to Li Wan and Tanchun, both of whom approved of the way it had been settled.
So Siqi and the rest had worked themselves up for nothing.
And Qin Xians wife, after this stroke of luck came her way, was able to gloat for no more than half a day.
She had busily taken over and checked up on the utensils, rice, grain, charcoal and so forth in the kitchen, where she discovered serious shortages.
Theres two piculs of good rice short, she observed.
An extra months supply of ordinary rice has been drawn in advance, and theres charcoal missing as well.
At the same time she prepared presents for Mrs. Lin, secretly getting ready a load of charcoal, five hundred catties of firewood and one picul of good rice outside the Garden for her nephew to take to the Lins house.
In addition, she prepared gifts to send the accountants and some dishes to treat her new colleagues.
My coming here is all thanks to your help, she told them.
In future we shall be one family.
If I overlook anything, please see to it for me.
As she was bustling frantically about, a messenger suddenly arrived to announce Youre to leave after serving the morning meal.
Mrs. Liu has been cleared and the job given back to her.
Thunderstruck and utterly cast down by this news, Qin Xians wife made haste to pack up and beat a retreat.
She was badly out of pocket over the presents, and now she had to make good that sum herself.
Siqi too was completely taken aback, but fume as she might there was nothing she could do.
As for Concubine Zhao, because Caiyun had given her so many things on the sly and Yuchuan had raised such a fuss, she was afraid others would find out the truth.
This kept her in a constant cold sweat as she waited to hear the upshot.
When Caiyun assured her that there would be no further trouble as Baoyu had taken the blame, this took a great load off her mind.
It only made ha Huan more suspicious, however.
He fetched out all Caiyuns secret gifts to him and threw them at her face.
Sneaky double-crosser!
he swore.
I dont want this trash of yours.
If you werent on good terms with Baoyu, why should he cover up for you?
If you had any guts, you wouldnt have let a single person know youd given me these things.
Now that youve blabbed about it Id lose face if I kept them.
Caiyun frantically assured him that she was not on friendly terms with Baoyu, nor had she told anyone.
Sobbingly she tried in all sorts of ways to convince him, but ha Huan stubbornly refused to believe her.
If not for our past friendship, he cried, Id go and tell sister-in-law Xifeng that you stole these things and offered them to me, but I dared not take them.
Just think what would happen then!
With that he stormed out.
By this time Concubine Zhao was frantic too.
Ungrateful brat!
she cursed.
Misbegotten monster!
Caiyun, weeping her eyes out, looked quite heart-broken no matter how the concubine tried to comfort her.
Good child, how ungrateful he is, after all your kindness!
she said.
But I know how it is.
Let me put these things away, and in a couple of days hell come to his senses again.
She wanted to take the things, but Caiyun in a fit of pique bundled them up together, and when no one was watching slipped into the Garden and threw them all into the stream, where some sank and some floated away.
That night, under her quilt, she secretly wept with rage.
By now Baoyus birthday had come round again, and they found that Baoqins birthday happened to fall on the identical day.
As Lady Wang was away from home, however, it was not as lively as in previous years.
Still, the Taoist priest Zhang sent over four gifts and a new charm with the boys Buddhist name on it then some monks and nuns from various abbeys, nunneries and temples brought sacrificial offerings of food, pictures of the God of Longevity, sacrificial paper for burning, the name of his own star god, the name of the star god presiding over that year, and lock-charms to safeguard Baoyu throughout the year.
Men and women story-tellers who frequented the house came to offer congratulations.
Wang Ziteng sent his nephew his usual gifts a pair of shoes and socks, a suit of clothes, a hundred longevity cakes in the shape of peaches, and a hundred bundles of silver-silk noodles of the kind used in the Palace.
From Aunt Xue the boy received half this amount, appropriate to her status.
As for the rest of the family, Madam You gave him her usual gift of a pair of shoes and socks, and Xifeng a pouch symbolizing harmony embroidered in the Palace, in which were a golden God of Longevity, as well as a toy from Persia.
Alms and gifts were dispatched to various temples, and there were presents for Baoqin as wel, but we need not enumerate these.
The girls just sent whatever they pleased a fan, some calligraphy, a painting or a poem to mark the occasion.
Baoyu got up early that morning and as soon as his toilet was finished put on ceremonial dress and went to the front court.
There Li Kui and four other stewards had set ready the incense and candles for the sacrifices to heaven and earth.
Baoyu lit the incense, bowed, poured libations and burned sacrificial paper, then went to do obeisance in the clan temple and the ancestral hall in the Ning Mansion.
This done, he came out to the terrace of the ancestral hail to bow in the direction of the Lady Dowager and his parents.
Next he called on Madam You to pay his respects, and after sitting there for a while returned to the Rong Mansion.
Here, he called first on Aunt Xue, who held him in her arms to prevent.
courtesies went into the Garden attended by Qingwen, Sheyue and a small maid carrying a rug.
He called to pay his respects in turn to all his seniors starting with Li Wan, and then went out of the inner gate to the outer courtyard to see his four old nannies Li, Zhao, Zhang and Wang.
On his return, everyone wanted to kowtow their congratulations, but he would not let them do so.
On his return to his quarters, Xiren and the other maids simply offered him verbal congratulations, for Lady Wang had forbidden the young people to let others bow to them for fear of spoiling their luck hence none of the maid-servants kowtowed to him.
And when presently Jia Huan, Jia Lan and others called, Xiren promptly stopped them from bowing and made them sit down for a while before they left.
Im tired after walking, remarked Baoyu now.
He curled up on the bed and had just drunk half a cup of tea when gay chattering sounded outside and along came a troop of eight or nine laughing maids Xiaoluo, Cuimo, Cuilu, Ruhua and Xiuyans maid Zhuaner, as well as a nurse carrying little Qiaojie, and Cailuan and Xiuluan, each of whom had brought a red rug.
They cried out merrily, Weve gate-crashed to offer our congratulations.
Hurry up and bring us some of the birthday noodles!
The next moment Tanchun, Xiangyun, Baoqin, Xiuyan and Xichun arrived too.
Baoyu hurried out to meet his cousins, beaming.
Thank you for coming!
he said.
Brew some good tea, quick!
Once inside they deferred to each other, then all took seats.
Xiren and some other maids handed round tea, and barely had they sipped it when Pinger approached, freshly made up and as pretty as a flower.
Baoyu hastily went out to greet her with the words I went just now to Cousin Xifengs place, but was told she wasnt free to see me so then I sent someone in to ask after you.
I was helping your cousin do her hair, Pinger explained.
Thats why I couldnt come out to speak to you.
When I heard youd asked after me I felt so honoured that Ive come specially now to kowtow to you!
That would be doing me too much honour!
he chuckled.
By now Xiren had placed a seat in the outer room for Pinger.
The latter curtseyed to Baoyu, who hastily bowed to her in return.
Then Pinger knelt down and he at once followed suit.
Pinger curtseyed again, and once again Baoyu bowed.
-386 Make another bow, prompted Xiren, nudging him.
Why another?
Ive bowed already.
She came to congratulate you, Xiren said, but today is her birthday too.
So its up to you to congratulate her as well.
Baoyu bowed again in his delight and exclaimed, So its your birthday too, sister!
As Pinger hastily curtseyed in return, Xiangyun took Baoqin and Xiuyan by the arm.
You four had better spend the whole day bowing and curtseying to each other, she cried.
Is it Cousin Xiuyans birthday too?
asked Tanchun.
How could I have forgotten?
She ordered a maid, Go and tell Madam Lian, and have another set of presents like Miss Baoqins sent at once to Miss Yingchuns apartments.
When the maid had gone off on this errand Xiuyan, now that Xiangyun had disclosed that it was her birthday, had to make a round of courtesy calls too.
This is rather intriguing, remarked Tanchun.
There are twelve months in a year with several birthdays in each.
On account of there being so many people here some birthdays coincide with two or three of them falling on the same day.
Even on New Years Day we celebrate one thats Elder Sisters birthday.
No wonder shes had such good fortune, with her birthday coming before anyone elses.
It was great-great-grand-fathers birthday too.
Then comes the birthday of the old lady and cousin Baochai theres one coincidence for you.
The first of the third month is the mistress birthday the ninth is Cousin Jia Lians.
There s none in the second month....
The twelfth of the second month is Miss Lins birthday, put in Xiren.
Only she isnt one of our family.
Of course!
chuckled Tanchun.
Whats wrong with my memory?
Baoyu pointed at Xiren.
She and Cousin Daiyu have the same birthday, thats why she remembers it.
The same birthday, do they?
cried Tanchun.
But youve never even kowtowed to us each year.
We didnt know when Pingers birthday was either.
Weve only just now learned it.
Were nobodies, rejoined Pinger.
We havent the luck to be congratulated on our birthdays or the rank to receive presents, so why trumpet the day abroad?
Naturally we keep quiet about it.
Now that shes given me away, I shall call on you young ladies later to pay my respects.
We mustnt put you to such trouble, Tanchun demurred.
Instead we must celebrate your birthday too today, so as to make me feel better.
Baoyu, Xiangyun and the rest approving this, Tanchun sent a maid to report to Xifeng, Weve decided not to let Pinger go today, as were all chipping in to celebrate her birthday.
The maid went off smiling, returning after some time with Xifengs reply.
Madam Lian thanks you young ladies for doing her such an honour.
She wants to know what birthday treat youll be giving Pinger, and says if you promise not to leave her out she wont come to plague her.
All laughed at this.
Tanchun said, As it happens, our meals today arent being prepared by the kitchen in the Garden.
Were having noodles and dishes cooked outside.
So we can whip round for the money, and get Mrs. Liu to take charge and prepare something here.
The others all agreed to this.
Tanchun then sent to invite Li Wan, Baochai and Daiyu, while another maid summoned Mrs. Liu who was instructed to lose no time in preparing in her kitchen a feast for two tables.
Mrs. Liu was puzzled by this.
The outside kitchens got everything ready, she said.
You dont understand, Tanchun told her.
Today is Miss Pingers birthday.
The meal prepared outside is provided by the chief accountants office.
Now weve raised the money ourselves for a special party for Pinger.
You just choose and make some new appetizing dishes, and bring the bill to me later.
Mrs. Liu laughed.
So its Miss Pingers birthday too, eh?
I didnt know that.
She approached Pinger to kowtow to her, and when Pinger stopped her went off to prepare the feast.
Tanchun had already invited Baoyu to have his noodles with them in the Council Hall so as soon as Li Wan and Baochai had arrived, maids were sent to invite Aunt Xue and Daiyu over.
As the day was mild and Daiyu was feeling better, she accepted the invitation.
The hall was packed with people, gay with flowers and silks.
But now Xue Ke sent Baoyu four birthday presents a scarf, a fan, some scent and silk so Baoyu went over to eat noodles with him.
Both families had prepared feasts and exchanged gifts.
At noon Baoyu drank a few cups of wine with Xue Ke, and Baochai took Baoqin to pay her respects to him too.
After toasting Xue Ke, Baochai told him Theres no need to send a feast to the other house.
Better dispense with those formalities and just invite the shop assistants to a meal.
Were going to the Garden now with Cousin Baoyu, as we have others to look after so we cant keep you company.
Dont let me keep you, cousins, replied Xue Ke.
The shop assistants will be here any time.
Then Baoyu asked to be excused and left with the girls.
When they entered the side gate, Baochai ordered the women in charge there to lock it, and took the key herself.
Why lock this gate?
asked Baoyu.
Hardly anyone uses it but now auntie and you two are inside and it will be awkward if you want something fetched from your home.
One can never be too careful, was Baochais reply.
Theres been all sorts of trouble in your house these last few days, but our household wasnt involved that shows the advantage of keeping the gate shut.
If it were left open, people might take a short cut through here, and then which of them should we stop?
Better lock it, even if thats less convenient for mother and me.
Dont let anyone through.
Then whatever trouble there may be, our household wont be implicated.
So you knew wed lost some things recently, remarked Baoyu with a smile.
You only heard about the rose flavoured juice and pachyma flour because of the girls involved, retorted Baochai.
If not for them, you wouldnt even have known of those two things.
Actually there have been losses more serious than that.
If it isnt noised abroad, so much the better for everyone otherwise, goodness knows how many people in the Garden would be implicated.
Im telling you this because you pay no attention to what goes on.
I told Pinger the other day, too, because shes an intelligent person and as her mistress isnt here I wanted her to know.
if word doesnt get out, we may as well do nothing if theres a scandal, shell have been forewarned and know what its all about, then she wont wrong innocent people.
Take my advice and be more careful in future.
And dont repeat what Ive told you to anyone else.
They now reached Seeping Fragrance Pavilion where a dozen or so girls were amusing themselves by watching the fish.
Among them were Xiren, Xianhing, Shishu, Suyun, Qingwen, Sheyue, Fangguan, Ouguan and Ruiguan.
When they saw them approaching they said Everythings ready in Peony Bower.
Hurry up and go to the feast.
Baochai went with them to Peony Bower, a small three-frame hail in Red Fragrance Farm, where all the ladies of the house including even Madam You had assembled.
Only Pinger was missing.
Pinger had gone out, as it happened, because the families of Lai Da, Lin Zhixiao and the other stewards had been sending presents over in turn, and many of the servants of the first, second and third rank had also come one after another with gifts to offer their congratulations.
Pinger was kept busy dispatching the messengers with tips and thanks, and she also had to report each case to Xifeng.
Only a few of the gifts did she keep for herself some she declined, and the rest she immediately made over to others.
After occupying herself in this way for a while, she waited on Xifeng while she had her noodles, then changed her clothes and went back to the Garden.
As soon as she entered it, she was met by several maids who had come to fetch her.
They escorted her to Red Fragrance Farm where a sumptuous feast had been spread.
Now all the birthday stars are here, cried the others laughingly.
They insisted that these four must take the seats of honour, but this they declined to do.
Aunt Xue declared, Im too old to mix in your crowd, and I feel very boxed up here too, Id rather lie down in comfort in the Council Hall.
I cant eat anything or drink much either, so Ill leave my place to them and that will suit everybody.
At first Madam You and the rest would not hear of this, but Baochai said, Thats all right.
Why not let mother lie down in the hall where she can relax?
We can send over any dishes she likes.
Shell feel freer.
Besides, theres nobody in front today, and she can keep an eye on things.
In that case, agreed Tanchun, wed better do as she asks instead of standing on ceremony.
So they saw Aunt Xue to the hall, told the young maids to spread a silk mattress, back-rest and pillows for her, and instructed them Mind you look after Madam Xue well.
Massage her legs, serve her tea and dont shirk your work.
Well be sending food over later, and after shes eaten you can have whats left.
But you mustnt leave this place.
The young maids promised to carry out these orders.
Then Tanchun and the others went back.
Finally they made Baoqin and Xiuyan take the top seats at the first table with Pinger facing west and Baoyu facing east, while Tanchun got Yuanyang to join her at the lower side of the table.
At the table on the west side sat Baochai, Daiyu, Xiangyun, Yingchun and Xiehun in the same order, with Xiangling and Yuchuan on the fourth side.
Madam You and Li Wan shared a third table with Xiren and Caiyun.
At a fourth sat Zijuan, Yinger, Qingwen, Xiaoluo and Siqi.
When all were in place, Tanchun wanted to offer toasts, but Baoqin and the other three declined.
If you start that, they objected, well be standing here all day toasting again and again and still never finish.
At that she did not insist.
Then two women story-tellers offered to perform a ballad for the occasion.
No one here wants to hear your wild talk, everyone said.
Go to the hall to amuse Madam Xue.
They picked various dishes and had them sent to her.
Just feasting quietly is no fun.
Lets play some drinking games, Baoyu proposed.
All the rest agreed, and suggested different games.
Lets write down the names of all sorts of games and draw lots to decide which one to play, said Daiyu.
This met with general approval and writing-brush, inkstone and fancy note-paper were sent for.
Now XiangLing had been learning to write poetry and practising her calligraphy every day.
When the brush and inkstone arrived, she could not resist getting up at once and offering to act as amanuensis.
As the others thought of and called out the names of a dozen games, she put them down on separate slips of paper, which were roiled into spills and put in a vase.
Then Tanchun told Pinger to take one.
Pinger stepped forward to mix the lots and picked one out with her chopsticks.
When she unfolded it, she found written there She -fu conundrums.
Youve picked the ancestor of all drinking games, chuckled Baochai.
It was played in ancient times, but the original rules have been lost now.
What we have is a later version, more difficult than all other drinking games.
Half of us here wouldnt be able to play it.
Better scrap this and pick one to suit all tastes.
As this has already been picked, Tanchun objected, how can we scrap it?
Pick another as well, and if that ones more popular let the others play that while we play this first one.
She told Xiren to draw another lot, and this proved to be the finger-guessing game.
This is simple and quick, it suits me!
chortled Xiangyun.
I shant play conundrums thats too boring and depressing.
I shall guess fingers.
Shes broken the rules, cried Tanchun.
Quick, Cousin Baochai, make her drink a cup as a forfeit.
Baochai laughingly forced Xiangyun to drain a cup.
Im taking charge so Ill drink a cup too, said Tanchun.
Theres no need for any announcement, just do as I say.
Fetch a dice-bowl and throw the dice in turn, starting with Baoqin.
When two people throw the same number they must play conundrums.
Baoqin cast a three Xiuyan and Baoyu threw different numbers and Xiangling when it came to her turn threw another three.
We must stick to objects in this room, said Baoqin.
If things out- side were chosen, we wouldnt have a clue.
Right, agreed Tanchun.
Anyone who makes three wrong guesses must drink a cup.
Now give her a conundrum to guess.
Baoqin thought for a moment then said, Old.
Xiangling, who was unfamiliar with this game, looked round the room and feasters but could see nothing fitting a classical allusion containing the word old.
But Xiangyun on hearing the clue had started staring around too.
Catching sight of the name Red Fragrance Farm over the door, she realized that Baoqin had in mind the line I am not as good as the old gardener.
As Xiangling could not guess the answer and they were beating the drum to hurry her, she quietly tugged at her sleeve.
Say peony, she whispered.
Daiyu saw this and cried, Quick, punish her!
Shes cheating.
That gave the game away and Xiangyun, forced to drink a cup of wine, in a huff rapped Daiyus knuckles with her chopsticks.
Then Xiangling had to drink a cup as a forfeit too.
Now Baochai and Tanchun threw the same number, and Tanchun gave the word man.
Thats too general, protested Baochai.
Ill add another word then, said Tanchun.
Two clues for one conundrum cant be considered too vague.
This time she gave the word window.
Baochai thought this over and, seeing chicken on the table, remembered the allusions cock-window and cock-man, so she answered with the word roost.
Tanchun knew that Baochai had guessed right and had in mind the allusion Chickens come home to roost.
Smiling at each other both girls took a sip of wine.
Meanwhile Xiangyun, too impatient to wait, had started playing the finger-guessing game with Baoyu, shouting three or five at random.
Madam You and Yuanyang, facing each other across the table to play the same game, were shouting now seven now eight.
Pinger and Xiren had paired off together too, and were indicating the numbers they guessed with their fingers, which set their bracelets tinkling.
Xiangyun, beating Baoyu, was entitled to make him pay forfeits before and after drinking.
She announced, Before drinking, the loser must quote one line from a classical essay, one from an old poem, one dominos name, one name of a melody, and one line from the almanac.
All these together must make up a sentence.
The forfeit after drinking is to name some sweetmeat or dish and link it with human affairs.
The others hearing this laughed.
Her forfeits are always more pernickety than other peoples still, theyre fun, they remarked, then urged Baoyu to speak up quickly.
Weve never done this before.
Give me a chance to think first, he begged.
Daiyu offered, Drink an extra cup and Ill do it for you.
So Baoyu drank while Daiyu recited -1142 Sunset clouds float with the lone wild duck, The wild goose cries through the sky above wind-swept river A wild goose with a broken leg, Its crying fills all hearts with sorrow.
-755 Such is the wild gooses return.
Amid general laughter the others commented, Stringing lines together like this is rather fun.
Then Daiyu picked up a hazel-nut to pay the after-drinking forfeit and said -1142 Hazel-nuts having nothing to do with neighbourhood washing-blocks, Why with them comes the sound of clothes beaten by ten thousand households?
After these forfeits had been paid, Yuanyang and Xiren who had also lost each recited a proverb alluding to long life, which we need not repeat.
They went on playing the finger-guessing game for some time, Xiangyun pairing off with Baoqin.
Then Li Wan and Xiuyan, casting dice, threw the same number.
Li Wan gave the clue gourd, which Xiuyan answered with green , and as she had guessed correctly each took a sip of wine.
By now Xiangyun had lost the finger-game and had to pay a forfeit.
Baoqin quipped, Please get into the jar, sir!
2 -386 The rest laughed and cried, Very apt!
Then Xiangyun declaimed -1142 Leaping and rushing, The rivers waves surge towards the sky An iron chain is needed to fasten the lonely boat, Because there is wind on the river It is not expedient to make a journey.
Roaring with laughter the rest said, How side-splitting!
No wonder she made up this forfeit.
It was so as to make us laugh.
They waited then to hear her final line but having tossed off her wine Xiangyun helped herself to a piece of duck, noticing as she did so that there was half a ducks head in the bowl.
She picked this out and started eating the brain.
Dont just eat, they scolded.
Finish your forfeit first.
Then holding up her chopsticks Xiangyun said, -1142 This ducks head is not that serving-maid, 2 How can its head be smeared with oil of osmanthus?
At that the rest laughed even louder, while Qingwen, Xiaoluo, Yinger and the other maids came over to protest Miss Xiangyun, youve making fun of us.
You must drink a cup by way of penalty.
Why should we be smeared with osmanthus oil?
Youd better give us each a bottle of it.
Daiyu chuckled, She wouldnt mind giving you a bottle, if it werent for fear of being suspected of theft!
Most of the company paid no attention but Baoyu, understanding, lowered his head while Caiyun, having a guilty conscience, blushed.
Baochai shot Daiyu a warning glance, making her regret her indiscretion for in her eagerness to tease Baoyu she had forgotten until it was too late how sensitive Caiyun was.
Dropping the subject then, they went on with their games.
Presently Baoyu and Baochai threw dice with the same number.
Baochai gave the clue precious and Baoyu after a little thought knew that this was a playful reference to his magic jade.
Youre making fun of me, cousin, and Ive guessed the answer, he told her with a smile.
Dont be annoyed if I break your taboo by saying your own name chai hairpin.
Asked what he meant he explained, When she said precious she naturally meant jade so I answered hairpin.
An old poem has the line The jade hairpin is broken, the red candle cold.
Isnt that the answer?
Youre not allowed topical references, Xiangyun cried.
Both of you should pay a forfeit.
Its not just topical, objected Xiangling.
There are classical sources too.
Not for precious jade, retorted Xiangyun.
Only New Year congratulatory couplets pasted on gates may use it, but you wont find it in any classical records.
This conundrum wont do.
Xiangling insisted, The other day reading Cen Shens poems I found the line There is much precious jade in these parts.
How could you have forgotten that?
And then in one of Li Shangyins poems I found another line, The precious hairpin daily gathers dust.
I remarked at the time that apparently both their names appeared in Tang poetry.
This will silence her!
the others laughed.
Drink up, quick!
Xiangyun having no more to say had to drain her cup.
So they went on dicing and playing finger-guessing games.
And as there was nobody to control them in the absence of the Lady Dowager and Lady Wang, they enjoyed themselves just as they pleased, shouting different numbers, the hall a scene of wild merriment filled as it was with the fluttering of red and green silk, the flashing of jade and pearl trinkets.
When at last the feast ended and they prepared to leave, they suddenly discovered that Xiangyun was missing.
Thinking she had gone out to relieve herself and would soon be back, they waited and waited, but there was no sign of her.
A general search was made, but she could not be found.
Presently the wife of Lin Zhixiao arrived with several old nannies.
For fearing that the young ladies might want something, and that in the absence of Lady Wang the young maids might get out of hand or become tipsy and obstreperous, they had come to ask if they were needed.
Tanchun realized the reason for their coming.
So youve come to check up on us, being worried again!
she chuckled.
We havent drunk much we were just having fun together on the pretext of drinking.
You nannies can set your minds at rest.
Li Wan and Madam You also said, Go and rest.
We wouldnt dream of letting them drink too much.
We know that, answered Mrs. Lin and the others.
Even when the old lady wants them to drink they wont, much less so now that the mistress is away of course this is just in fun.
We came to find out if you need anything.
The days are long now, and after amusing themselves all this time the young ladies ought to have some extra snack.
Thay dont usually eat between meals, but unless they have something after a few cups of wine it may not be good for them.
Tanchun smiled.
Youre quite right.
We were thinking of asking for something.
She turned to order some cakes.
The maids standing on both sides assented and went off quickly to fetch them, while Tanchun urged the old women, Go and rest or have a chat with Madam Xue.
Well send you some wine.
Mrs. Lin and the others politely declined and after a while withdrew.
As soon as they had gone Pinger felt her cheeks.
My face is so hot I didnt like to let them see me, she said.
I suggest we wind up now to stop them from coming again that would be awkward.
Never mind, said Tanchun.
Its all right as long as we dont get really drunk.
As she was speaking a young maid came in, smiling.
Go and have a look quick, miss, at Miss Xiangyun, she cried.
Shes drunk, and shes picked a cool spot on a stone bench behind the rockery to sleep it off.
The rest laughed to hear this.
Lets not make a noise, they said.
With that they went out to look, and sure enough found Xiangyun lying on a stone bench in a quiet spot behind an artificial mountain.
She was sound asleep and covered with peony petals, which had floated over from all sides to scatter, red and fragrant, over her face and clothes.
Her fan, dropped to the ground, was half buried in fallen blossoms too, while bees and butterflies were buzzing and flitting around her.
And she had wrapped up some peony petals in her handkerchief to serve as a pillow.
They all thought she looked both sweet and comical.
As they crowded round to wake her, Xiangyun was still mumbling lines for forfeits in her sleep -755 Sweet the fountain, cold the wine Gleaming like amber in a cup ofjade The drinking lasts till the moon rises over the plum trees, Then the drunkards help each other back An appropriate time to meet relatives and friends.
Laughing, they nudged her.
Hurry up and wake up!
Were going to eat.
Youll make yourself ill if you sleep on this damp bench.
Xiangyun slowly opened her eyes then and saw them all, then looked down at herself and realized she was tipsy.
She had come here in search of coolness and quiet, but as she had drunk so much wine by way of forfeits, overcome by dreamy inertia she had dozed off.
Rather sheepishly, she hastily sat up, straightened her clothes and went back with the others to Red Fragrance Farm.
There she had a wash and two cups of strong tea, and Tanchun sent for the pebble to sober drunkards for her to suck.
Presently she made her drink some vinegar soup too, after which Xiangyun felt better.
Now they picked some sweetmeats and dishes to send to Xifeng, who sent them some food in return.
After Baochai and the others had eaten some cakes, some of them sat or stood about in the hall while others went outside to enjoy the flowers or lean over the balustrade to watch the fish, laughing and chatting or doing whatever each pleased.
Tanchun and Baoqin played draughts, with Baochai and Xiuyan looking on, while Daiyu and Baoyu engaged in a conversation under a flowering tree.
Then Lin Zhixiaos wife and some other matrons brought in another woman looking most upset, who would not venture to enter the hall but knelt down at the foot of the steps to kowtow.
Now one of Tanchuns positions on the draught-board had been threatened, and although after putting up a struggle she had managed to win two spaces she was still losing the game.
Her eyes intent on the board, she was thinking hard, toying with one hand with the draughtsmen in the box.
When she finally turned her head to ask for tea and noticed Mrs. Lin, the latter had been standing there a long time.
Asked her business, Mrs. Lin pointed at the woman.
This is the mother of young Caier who works for Miss Xichun, she reported.
Shes one of those looking after the Garden, and a fearful gossip.
Just now I overheard her saying something which I dare not repeat to you, miss.
She ought to be dismissed.
Why no report this to Madam Zhu?
asked Tanchun.
I met her just now on her way to the Council Hall to see Madam Xue, and told her about it.
She sent me to tell you.
Why not go to Madam Lian?
Theres no need for that, interposed Pinger.
Ill just tell her when I go back.
Tanchun nodded.
In that case, dismiss her now and wait until the mistress comes back to make a final decision.
This said, she went on with her game, while Mrs. Lin took the woman away.
Daiyu and Baoyu standing under the blossoms had watched this from a distance.
Your third sisters rather smart, remarked Daiyu.
Although shes been put in charge of things, she never oversteps her authority.
Most people would have given themselves big airs long ago.
You dont know that while you were unwell she did quite a few things, putting different people in charge of various parts of the Garden, so that now you cant pick one extra blade of grass.
She scrapped a few things too, taking me and Xifeng as her main targets.
Shes very calculating, not simply smart.
So much the better, said Daiyu.
This household of ours is too extravagant.
Though Im not in charge, when Ive nothing to do and reckon things up I can see that the expenditure here exceeds the income.
If expenses arent cut down now, a time will come when therell be nothing left.
Baoyu chuckled.
Never mind.
Whatever happens, the two of us wont go short.
Daiyu hearing this turned and went to the hall to join Baochai.
Baoyu was about to leave too when Xiren came along carrying a small carved, double-circle foreign lacquer tray on which were two cups of newly brewed tea.
Where has she gone?
she asked.
I noticed that the two of you had had no tea for a long time, so I specially brought you two cups only to find her gone.
Shes over there take it to her.
With that he took one of the cups.
Xiren, going off with the other, found Daiyu with Baochai.
Ive only the one cup of tea, she said.
Which ever of you is thirsty can drink this first, and Ill go to fetch another.
Im not thirsty, answered Baochai.
Ill just take a sip.
She took the cup and drank one mouthful, leaving half a cup which she handed to Daiyu.
Ill get you some more.
Xiren offered.
But Daiyu said, You know the doctor wont let me drink too much tea on account of my illness, so this half cup is plenty.
Thank you for bringing it.
She drained the cup and put it down, after which Xiren went to collect Baoyus cup.
He asked her, Wheres Fangguan?
I havent seen her all this time.
Xiren looked around as she answered, She was here a moment ago.
A few of them were playing the matching-herbs game, but I dont see her now.
Then Baoyu hurried back to his compound and found Fangguan lying on the bed with her face to the wall.
Dont go to sleep, he said nudging her.
Lets amuse ourselves outside.
Itll soon be time for dinner.
You were all drinking and ignoring me so having nothing to do all that time naturally I came to lie down, Fangguan retorted.
Baoyu pulled her up.
Well have another drink later at home, and Ill tell Sister Xiren to bring you to the dinner table.
Hows that?
If Ouguan and Ruiguan arent there, only me, thats no good.
Besides, I dont like noodles.
I didnt have a proper meal this morning and Im hungry, so Ive told Mrs. Liu to prepare me a bowl of soup and half a bowl of rice and send them here.
Ill eat here.
If were drinking tonight you mustnt let anyone stop me I mean to drink my fill.
At home, in the old days, I used to be able to drink two or three catties of good Huiquan wine but after I learned this wretched singing they said drinking might spoil my voice, so for the last few years I havent so much as smelt a whiff of wine.
I shall take the chance today to break my fast.
Thats simple, he said.
Now a maid arrived with a hamper from Mrs. Liu.
Xiaoyan took it and opened it, then put on the table one bowl of chickenskin soup with shrimp balls, one bowl of steamed duck with wine sauce, one of salted goose and another of four pine-kernel cream puffs, as well as a big bowl of hot green rice.
She then fetched pickles, bowls and chopsticks, and filled one small bowl with rice.
Who wants such greasy stuff?
complained Fangguan, just ladling some soup on the rice and eating a bowlful with two pieces of goose.
To Baoyu, the food smelled more appetizing than his usual fare, so first he ate one cream puff, then asked Xiaoyan for half a bowl of rice which he ate with soup and found delicious, exactly to his taste, much to the two girls amusement.
After he had finished, Xiaoyan prepared to take back what was left.
You may as well finish it off, proposed Baoyu.
If its not enough ask for some more.
Theres no need for that this is plenty for me, she answered.
Just now Sister Sheyue brought us two plates of cakes.
After eating this Ill have had enough and shant need any more.
So standing there by the table she finished all the food except two cream puffs, saying, Ill keep these for my mother.
If youre drinking tonight, give me a couple of bowls.
So you like wine too?
exclaimed Baoyu.
Wait till this evening then, and well have a good bout of drinking.
Your sisters Xiren and Qingwen have a good capacity and enjoy drinking too, only normally they dont feel they should.
Well, today everyone can break her fast.
Theres another thing I meant to tell you which Ive only just remembered.
In future you must take good care of Fangguan, and tell her if she does anything wrong.
Xiren hasnt time to look after so many girls.
I know all that, said Xiaoyan.
You dont have to worry.
But what about Wuer?
Tell Mrs. Liu to send her here tomorrow.
Ill inform them about it later and that will be that.
Fangguan hearing this exclaimed, Now thats something really important!
Xiaoyan called in two young maids then to wait on them while they washed their hands and to pour them tea while she herself cleared the table, gave the dishes to a serving-woman, washed her hands and went to see Mrs. Liu.
Baoyu started back then to Red Fragrance Farm to rejoin the girls, followed by Fangguan carrying his handkerchief and fan.
As they went out of the gate they met Xiren and Qingwen, coming back hand in hand.
What are you two doing?
Baoyu asked them.
The meals on the table waiting for you, Xiren said.
Smiling, Baoyu told them what he had just eaten.
I always say youre as bad as a cat, Xiren laughed.
Whatever you smell takes your fancy.
Other peoples food tastes better to you than your own.
Still, youd better go and keep them company and make a show of eating.
Qingwen stabbed at Fangguans forehead with her finger.
You vamp!
she cried.
When did you sneak off to have a meal?
How did you two arrange it?
Why didnt you let us know?
They just happened to meet, said Xiren soothingly.
They certainly didnt arrange it in advance.
If thats how it is, he doesnt need us, said Qingwen.
Tomorrow well all clear out, leaving just Fangguan here to wait on him.
Xiren chuckled, All the rest of us can go, but not you.
Qingwen retorted, I should be the first to go, lazy, stupid, bad-tempered and useless as I am.
Supposing that peacock-feather cape gets burned again, who can mend it if youre gone?
asked Xiren.
Dont give me that silly talk.
When I ask you to do anything, youre too lazy to thread a needle.
And I never trouble you with sewing for me, only with things for him, yet you still refuse.
How come then that when I was away for a few days and you were laid up, practically at deaths door, you mended that cape for him with no thought of your health?
What made you do that?
Come on, speak up!
Dont pretend not to understand and just keep on smiling.
While talking together they had reached the hall.
Aunt Xue had already come, so all took their seats and started the meal, Baoyu just eating half a bowl of rice steeped in tea to keep them company.
Afterwards they sipped tea and chatted or amused themselves as they pleased.
Xiaoluo, Xiangling, Fangguan, Ruiguan, Ouguan and Douguan had been romping all over the Garden and picking flowers and herbs.
Now they sat down on the grass holding these on their laps to play the game matching herbs.
One said, Ive bodhisattva-willow.
This was capped by Ive arhat-pine.
Another said, Ive gentleman-bamboo.
Yet another answered, Ive lovely-lady plantain.
Ive starry- green .
Ive monthly-crimson.
Ive the peony of Peony Pavilion.
Ive the loquat of the Romance of the Lute.
Then Douguan said, Ive a sister-flower, and nobody could match that until Xiangling said Ive a husband-and-wife orchid.
Ive never heard of such an orchid, Douguan protested.
A stem bearing one flower is the lan orchid, and a stem bearing several flowers is the hui orchid, Xiangling told them.
When there are flowers above and below thats brothers-orchid when two flowers bloom side by side thats a husband-and-wife orchid.
This one of mine is like that, with two flowers side by side.
How can you deny it?
Unable to refute her, Douguan rose to her feet and teased, In that case, if one flower is large, the other small, it should be a father-and-son orchid.
Two flowers confronting each other should be an enemy orchid.
Your husbands been away for nearly a year and youre longing for him, so you dream up a husband-and-wife orchid.
For shame!
Blushing, Xiangling got ready to spring up to pinch her.
You foul-mouthed bitch!
she swore, laughing.
What drivel you talk!
Seeing she was about to spring up, Douguan promptly stooped to hold her down, turning to appeal to Ruiguan and the rest Come and help me pinch her foul mouth!
The two of them rolled over on the grass while the others laughed and clapped.
Look out!
cried one.
Theres a puddle there.
It would be a pity to dirty her new skirt.
Douguan turned and saw just beside them a puddle of rain water which had already muddied half Xianglings skirt.
Disconcerted, she let go of her and ran off.
The others could not help laughing, but afraid Xiangling might vent her annoyance on them they too scampered away giggling.
Xiangling got up now and started cursing when she looked down and saw water dripping from her skirt.
Just at this moment, along came Baoyu with some herbs and flowers he had picked, intending to join in their game.
He saw the rest running away leaving Xiangling there, her head lowered, fingering her skirt.
Why have they all gone?
he asked.
I had a husband-and-wife orchid, she told him.
Theyd never heard of it and said instead I was cheating, so we started squabbling and Ive spolit my new skirt.
You have a husband-and-wife orchid and Ive a neck-to-neck caltrop flower here, he answered, showing her the caltrop and taking the orchid from her.
Never mind about husband-and-wife or neck-to-neck, she grumbled.
Look at my skirt.
Baoyu bent to look, then exclaimed, Aiya!
How did you get it in the mud?
Its too bad, this pomegranate-red silk shows the dirt so.
This silk was brought the other day by Miss Baoqin.
Miss Baochai made one skirt and I made another, which I put on today for the first time.
Baoyu stamped his foot.
Your family can well afford to spoil a hundred skirts like that each day.
Only this was given you by Miss Baoqin, and you and Cousin Baochai both have one if hers is still all right while yours gets dirtied first, that looks ungrateful.
Besides, dear old Aunties a fuss-pot.
Even when youre careful, Ive often heard her complaining that youre a poor manager and dont know how to save but just waste things all the time.
If she sees this, youll never hear the end of it.
Xiangling was pleased and struck by his understanding.
Thats just it, she replied.
I have several new skirts, but none like this.
If I had, Id change it quickly and things would be all right for the time being.
Better not move, Baoyu warned her.
Just stay put, otherwise youll muddy your underclothes and shoes as well.
I have an idea.
Last month Xiren made a skirt exactly like this.
As shes still in mourning she isnt wearing it.
How about letting her give you hers instead?
Xiangling smiled and shook her head.
No, if others heard about it, that would be worse.
What would it matter?
After her mourning ends, if she fancies something you can surely give it her, cant you?
The way youre behaving isnt like your usual self.
Besides, this isnt anything that need be kept secret you can tell Cousin Baochai about it.
We just dont want to vex dear old Auntie.
Xiangling thought this made good sense.
Nodding she said, All right then.
To show how grateful I am to you Ill wait here.
But be sure you get her to bring it here herself.
Baoyu was delighted and agreed to this, musing as he hurried back with lowered head, Poor girl, with no parents, not even knowing her family name after being kidnapped and sold to this Tyrant King.
Then he thought, What I did for Pinger last time was unexpected now this is even more of a pleasant surprise.
His thoughts wandering in this foolish way, he went back to his room and got hold of Xiren to explain the situation.
As Xiangling was a general favourite and open-handed Xiren was a good friend of hers, as soon as she knew what had happened she opened her case, took the skirt out and folded it, then went off with Baoyu to find Xiangling still standing in the same spot.
I always said you were naughty, teased Xiren.
Now see what a mess youve landed yourself in.
Xiangling blushed and said, Thank you, sister.
I never thought those mischievous imps would play such a dirty trick on me.
When she took the skirt and unfolded it, she found it was just like her own.
She made Baoyu look the other way and, turning her back on him, took off her skirt and slipped into the clean one.
Give me the dirty one to take back, said Xiren.
Ill have it cleaned, then return it.
If you take it back, they may see it and ask questions.
You take it and give it to one of the girls.
Now that Ive got this one, I dont need it any more.
Thats very generous of you, said Xiren.
Then Xiangling curtseyed her thanks, and Xiren went off with the soiled skirt.
Now Xiangling saw that Baoyu was squatting on the ground using a twig to scrape a little pit in which to bury her orchid and his caltrop flower together.
First he lined the bottom of the pit with fallen blossoms then laid the flowers in it, strewed them with more blossoms, then filled in the pit with earth.
Xiangling pulled him by the hand saying, Whats the idea?
No wonder people say youre always up to underhand tricks.
Look, your hands are all muddy and filthy.
Go and wash them, quick.
Baoyu got up smiling and set off to wash his hands while Xiangling walked away too.
They had neither of them gone far when she turned back and called him to stop.
Not knowing the reason, Baoyu turned back grinning, holding his muddy hands away from himself.
What is it?
he asked.
But Xiangling simply giggled.
Just then her young maid Zhener appeared.
Miss Baoqin wants you, she said.
Xiangling urged Baoyu then, Just dont say anything about the skirt to your Cousin Pan.
Thats all.
With that she turned and went off.
Baoyu called laughingly after her, Think Im crazy?
Why should I put my head in a tigers mouth?
Then he went home to wash. To know what happened later, read the next chapter.
Chapter 63 Girls Feast at Night to Celebrate Baoyus Birthday Jia Jing Dies of an Elixir and Madam You Manages the Funeral Single-Handed Baoyu going back to his room to wash up told Xiren, We mustnt stand on ceremony tonight but drink and enjoy ourselves.
Let them know in good time what dishes we want so that theyll have them ready.
Dont worry, she replied.
Qingwen, Sheyue, Qiuwen and I have contributed half a tael of silver each, which makes two taels and Fangguan, Bihen, Xiaoyan and Sier have each given thirty cents.
So, apart from those who are away, weve raised three taels and twenty cents which weve already given to Mrs. Liu, whos preparing forty dishes.
Ive also arranged with Pinger to have a vat of good Shaoxing wine smuggled in.
The eight of us are going to throw a birthday party for you.
Baoyu was delighted but demurred, How can they afford it?
You shouldnt have made them chip in.
Qingwen demanded, Do we have money and not they?
All of us are just showing our feeling.
Never mind whether they can afford it.
Even if they steal the money, just you accept it.
Thats right, said Baoyu.
It seems that you cant be satisfied unless she gives you a few digs every day, chuckled Xiren.
Now youre learning bad ways too, shot back Qingwen.
Always goading others on to stir up trouble!
At that all three laughed, after which Baoyu proposed locking the courtyard gate.
But Xiren objected No wonder people say youre forever making a great ado about nothing.
If we lock the gate now that will arouse suspicion.
Better wait a bit.
Baoyu nodded.
Ill take a stroll outside then, he said, while Sier fetches water.
Xiaoyan can come with me.
He went out, and as there was nobody else about asked when Wuer would be coming.
I told Mrs. Liu just now, and of course shes very pleased, Xiaoyan informed him.
Only Wuer got so worked up that night she was hauled over the coals that as soon as she got home she fell ill again.
She cant come until shes better.
Baoyu sighed in disappointment.
Does Xiren know this?
he asked.
I didnt tell her, was the reply.
But Fangguan may have done for all I know.
Well, I never told her.
All right, Ill let her know now.
He went back inside on the pretext of washing his hands.
Now, as the time came to light the lamps, they heard people approaching the courtyard gate and when they peeped through the window saw Mrs. Lin with a few other stewards wives, the one in front carrying a big lantern.
Theyre making their nightly check-up of those on duty, whispered Qingwen.
Once theyve gone we can close the gate.
All the servants on night duty in Happy Red Court had gone out to meet these women.
After checking that they were all present Mrs. Lin warned them No gambling or drinking now, and no sleeping till morning!
If I hear of such goings-on Ill have something to say.
Which of us would dare?
they answered laughingly.
Then Mrs. Lin asked, Is Master Bao in bed yet?
As they replied that they did not know, Xiren nudged Baoyu, who put on slippers to go out to greet them.
No, Im not in bed yet, he called.
Come in and sit down.
Looking towards the house, he ordered Serve tea, Xiren.
Mrs. Lin entered then, smiling.
Still up!
she exclaimed.
Now the days are long, the nights short, you should go to bed early so as to get up early tomorrow.
Otherwise you may oversleep, and people will jeer that you dont behave like a scholarly young gentleman but like a common coolie.
Having said this she laughed.
Baoyu promptly agreed, Youre right, nanny.
I do generally go to bed early, so that I dont know when you come every evening because Im already asleep.
But today after eating noodles I was afraid of getting indigestion thats why Ive stayed up a bit.
Mrs. Lin advised Xiren and Qingwen to brew him some puer tea.
Weve made him some nuer tea 1 and hes drunk two bowls.
Wont you try some, madam?
they answered.
Its already brewed.
As Qingwen poured a bowl Mrs. Lin observed, Recently Ive noticed that the Second Master always calls you girls by your names.
Though youre working here you belong to Their Ladyships, so he should show more respect.
If once in a while he happens to use your names, that doesnt matter but if this becomes a habit then his cousins and nephews may follow suit, and then people will laugh at us and say weve no respect for elders in our household.
Youre right, nanny, agreed Baoyu again.
Actually I only do that once in a while.
The two girls put in, You must be fair to him.
Even now he still refers to us as elder sisters, only using our names occasionally in fun.
In front of others he always addresses us as he did before.
Thats good, approved Mrs. Lin.
Thats how someone with education and good manners ought to behave.
The more modest you are, the more respected youll be.
Not to say members of the staff of long standing or those transferred from Their Ladyships apartments, but even the dogs and cats from there mustnt be badly treated.
Thats the way a well brought up young gentleman should behave.
She then drank up her tea and said, We must be off now.
Ill wish you a good night.
Baoyu pressed them to stay, but Mrs. Lin had already led her party off to finish making their rounds.
At once Qingwen and others ordered the gate to be locked, and coming back Qingwen said That grandame must have been drinking, gabbing away and nagging at us like that.
She means well anyway, remarked Sheyue as she started to lay the table.
She has to remind us from time to time to be on our guard and not overstep the limits.
We dont need that high table, put in Xiren.
Lets put that round low pear-wood one on the kang.
Theres room for all of us at it, and its more convenient.
So they carried the table over, after which Sheyue and Sier fetched the dishes, making four or five trips with two big trays while two old women squatting outside by the brazier warmed the wine.
Its so hot, lets take off our outer clothes, Baoyu suggested.
You can if you want to, said the girls, but we have to take it in turns to offer toasts.
If you do that itll take all night, he objected.
You know how much I dislike those vulgar conventions.
We may have to observe them in front of outsiders, but if you provoke me like that it wont be nice.
Well do as you say, they agreed.
So before taking seats they first divested themselves of their outer things and had soon laid aside their formal gowns and trinkets, leaving their hair to hang free and wearing only long skirts and bodices.
Baoyu himself stripped down to a scarlet linen jacket and green dotted satin trousers, letting the ends of the trouser legs hang loose.
Leaning on a jade-colored gauze cushion filed with all sorts of fresh rose and peony petals, he started playing the finger-guessing game with Fangguan.
Fangguan, who had also been complaining of the heat, had on only a short lined satin jacket a patchwork of red, blue and jade-coloured squares, a green sash, and pink trousers with a floral design left untied at her ankles.
Her hair, woven in small plaits, was gathered on the crown of her head into a thick braid hanging down at the back.
In her right ear she wore a jade stop no bigger than a grain of rice, in her left a ruby-ear-ring set in gold the size of a gingko nut, making her face seem whiter than the full moon, her eyes clearer than water in autumn.
The two of them look like twin brothers!
chuckled the others.
Xiren and the rest poured wine for each.
Wait a bit before you start the finger-guessing game, they said.
Though were dispensing with the usual toasts, you must each take a sip from our cups.
Xiren held the first cup to her lips and took a sip, to be followed by the others, after which all sat down in a circle.
As there was insufficient room on the kang, Xiaoyan and Sier set two chairs beside it.
The forty white Ding ware dishes no bigger than saucers held all manner of sweet-meats and delicacies of land and sea, fresh or preserved, from every part of the country and from abroad.
And now Baoyu proposed playing some drinking games.
Something quiet, not too rowdy, advised Xiren.
We dont want people to hear us.
And nothing too literary either, as were no scholars.
How about the dice game Grabbing the Red?
said Sheyue.
Thats no fun, objected Baoyu.
Better play the Flower Game.
Yes, do lets!
cried Qingwen.
Ive always wanted to play that.
Its a good game, agreed Xiren, but no fun for just a few people.
Ive an idea, put in Xiaoyan.
Lets quietly invite Miss Baochai and Miss Daiyu over to play for a short time.
It wont matter if we go on till the second watch.
If we go around knocking different people up, we may run into some night-watchers, Xiren pointed out.
Dont be afraid, said Baoyu.
My Third Sister likes drinking too we should count her in.
And Miss Baoqin as well.
Not Miss Baoqin, the others demurred.
Shes with Madam Zhu, so that would make too much of a stir.
Never mind, insisted Baoyu.
Hurry up and invite them.
Xiaoyan and Sier, who had been awaiting this order, immediately called for the gate to be unlocked and went off to the different apartments.
They may not be able to get Miss Baochai and Miss Daiyu, predicted the senior maids.
Well have to go and drag them here by main force.
So, telling an old woman to bring a lantern, Xiren and Qingwen went off as well.
Sure enough, Baochai objected that it was too late while Daiyu pleaded poor health, but the two maids begged them Do give us a little face.
Just go and sit there for a while.
As for Tanchun, she was eager to come but felt that if Li Wan were left out and came to hear of it later that wouldnt be good so she told Zuimo and Xiaoyan to insist that Li Wan and Baoqin should both be invited.
Presently they all arrived, one by one, at Happy Red Court, where Xiren had dragged Xiangling over as well.
Another table had to be put on the kang before they could all sit down.
Cousin Daiyu feels the cold, said Baoyu.
Come and sit by the partition.
She was given a cushion for her back while Xiren and the other maids fetched chairs and seated themselves beside the kang.
Leaning against her back-rest some way from the table, Daiyu teased Baochai, Li Wan and Tanchun, Youre always accusing people of drinking and gambling at night, and now thats just what were doing.
How can we blame others in future?
It doesnt matter, replied Li Wan, if we only do this on birthdays or festivals, not every night.
Theres nothing to be afraid of.
As she was speaking, Qingwen brought in a carved bamboo container filled with ivory slips bearing the names of flowers.
Having shaken this she put it down in the middle.
Next she brought the dice-box and shook it, and upon opening the box saw that the number on the dice was five.
She counted, starting from herself, and Baochai being the fifth was the one who should start.
Ill draw, said Baochai.
I wonder what I shall get.
She shook the container and took out a slip on which they saw the picture of a peony with the words Beauty surpassing all flowers.
Inscribed in smaller characters beneath was the line of Tang poetry, Though heartless she has charm.
The instructions read, All the feasters must drink a cup by way of congratulations, for this is the queen of the flowers.
She can order anyone to compose a poem or tell a joke to enliven the drinking.
What a coincidence!
all exclaimed laughingly.
A peony is just the flower for you.
With that they drank a cup each.
After Baochai had drunk she decreed, Let Fangguan sing us a song.
In that case, said Fangguan, you must all finish your cups.
When all had drained them, Fangguan started singing The Birthday Feast Is Spread in a Fine Season.
Not that song, protested the others.
We dont want you, right now, to congratulate him on his birthday.
Sing us your best song instead.
Then Fangguan had to give them a careful rendering of a verse set to the melody The Season for Enjoying Flowers.
2 -740 With a broom of green phoenix feathers, I leisurely sweep fallen blossoms for immortals Lo, a wind rising all of a sudden Swirls jade dust under the clouds, So far removed though just outside the gate.
Do not miss by an inch again your slash at the yellow dragon, Nor return to the poor wine-vendor in the east.
But let us turn our eyes to the roseate clouds.
Ah, Lu Dongbin, Hasten back when you have found one to replace me!
If you delay, I shall nurse my grief for ever by the peach-blossom.
Baoyu, holding the slip of ivory, had been softly repeating to himself.
Though heartless she has charm, gazing at Fangguan as she sang, lost in thought.
Now Xiangyun snatched the slip from him and gave it to Baochai who threw sixteen, which made it Tanchuns turn.
I wonder what Ill get, she said with a smile.
But having drawn a slip out and seen what it was, she threw it down.
We shouldnt play this game, she declared with a blush.
Its a game for those men outside, a whole lot of silly nonsense.
The others were wondering what she meant when Xiren picked up the slip for all to see.
Under the picture of an apricot-blossom were the words in red Fairy flower from paradise and the verse A red apricot by the sun grows in the clouds.
The directions were Whoever draws this will have a noble husband.
All must drink to her, then drink another cup together.
Is that all?
they laughed.
This is a game for the inner apartments.
Apart from a couple of slips with mottoes like these, theres nothing improper so what does it matter?
Our family already has one Imperial Consort are you going to be another?
Congratulations!
They all raised their cups, but Tanchun would not drink this toast until compelled to by Xiangyun, Xiangling and Li Wan.
When she protested, Lets give up this game and play another, they would not agree, and Xiangyun held her hand, forcing her to throw the dice.
The number nineteen coming up, it was Li Wans turn.
She shook the container, took out a slip, and smiled when she saw what it was.
Excellent!
she crowed.
Just see what Ive got.
This is fun.
They saw the picture of an old plum-tree with the motto Cold beauty in frosty dawn and the line of verse Content to stay by the bamboo fence and thatched hut.
The instructions were Whoever draws this lot must drink a cup, then the one whose turn comes next must throw the dice.
Thats fine, said Li Wan.
You go on dicing while I just drink one cup without worrying how the rest of you get on.
She drained her cup and passed the dice to Daiyu, who threw eighteen, making it Xiangyuns turn.
Xiangyun rolled up her sleeves to draw her lot, a picture of crab-apple-blossom with the motto Deep in a fragrant dream and the line So late at night the flower may fall asleep.
Daiyu teased, The words late at night should be changed to cool on the stone.
At that everyone laughed, knowing that she was referring to how Xiangyun had fallen asleep earlier that day on a stone.
Giggling, Xiangyun pointed at the mechanical boat.
Hurry up and leave by that boat, and stop talking nonsense!
she retorted.
Amid more laughter they read the instructions, As she is deep in a fragrant sleep and cannot drink, the two next to her must each drink a cup instead.
Xiangyun clapped her hands.
Amida Buddha!
she cried.
This is really a lucky dip!
It so happened that Daiyu and Baoyu were one either side of her, so they both filled their cups.
Baoyu first drank half the cup, as no one was watching, then passed the rest to Fangguan, who drained the cup.
As for Daiyu, while chatting with the others she quietly poured her drink into a rinse-bowl.
Xiangyun then threw a nine, which made it Sheyues turn.
On the lot she drew they saw a rose with the motto Flower of final splendour and the line When the rose blooms, spring flowers fade.
Below was written, All at the feast should drink three cups each to farewell the spring.
When Sheyue asked what was written there, Baoyu frowned and hid the slip, saying, We must all drink.
So they took three sips each to symbolize three cups.
Then Sheyue threw nineteen and it was Xianglings turn.
She drew a picture of two flowers on one stem with the motto Double beauty linked with good fortune and the line Double flowers bloom on a single stem.
The instructions were All must congratulate the one who draws this lot and make her drink three cups, drinking one each themselves.
Xiangling then threw a six, making it Daiyus turn.
I hope I get something good, she thought while drawing a lot.
It showed a hibiscus flower with the motto Quiet and sad in wind and dew and the line Blame not the east wind but yourself.
The instruction was Both hibiscus and peony must drink a cup.
Fine!
cried the others.
Shes the only one here fit to be compared to a hibiscus.
Daiyu smiled too as she drank, then threw a twenty which made it Xirens turn.
Xiren drew a picture of peach-blossom with the motto Exotic scene at Wuling and the line Another spring returns and the peach blooms red.
The instructions were, The apricot-blossom, as well as those born in the same year, on the same day and those with the same surname must drink one cup.
This one is lively and good fun, cried the rest.
They worked it out that Xiangling, Qingwen and Baochai were the same age as Xiren, while Daiyus birthday fell on the same day but they could not think of anyone with the same name until Fangguan said My family name is Hua.
Ill drink with her.
As they filled their cups Daiyu remarked to Tanchun, Youre the apricot-blossom destined to have a noble husband.
So drink up quickly and well follow suit.
Stop talking nonsense!
retorted Tanchun.
Sister-in-law, give her a slap.
She hasnt got a noble husband and now you want me to beat her, teased Li Wan.
No, I cant bring myself to do it.
At that they all laughed.
Xiren was about to throw the dice when they heard someone at the gate.
An old woman went to see who was there and found it was a maid sent by Aunt Xue to fetch Daiyu back.
What time is it?
everyone asked.
After the second watch, the maid informed them.
The clocks just struck eleven.
Baoyu could not believe it was so late, but when he called for his watch and looked at the time it was ten past eleven.
I cant stay up any longer, said Daiyu getting up.
1 have to take medicine too after I go back.
All agreed that it was time to disperse, so when Xiren and Baoyu tried to keep them Li Wan and Baochai demurred It doesnt look right being so late.
Weve already made an exception to our rule.
In that case, said Xiren, lets each have one final cup.
Qingwen and the others filled the cups, and after drinking them they called for lanterns.
Xiren and the rest, having seen the visitors past Seeping Fragrance Pavilion to the other side of the stream, came back and locked the gate, then continued their game.
They also filled several big goblets and selected several dishes for the old maid-servants waiting on them.
And now, being slightly tipsy, they played the finger-guessing game and made the losers sing songs.
By the time of the fourth watch, the old women in addition to drinking their share had stolen more wine on the sly so that the whole vat was empty.
When they learned to their surprise that the wine was finished, they cleared the table, washed and made ready for bed.
Fangguans cheeks after drinking were as red as rouge, making her look still more charming.
Unable to hold herself steady she leaned on Xiren.
Dear sister, she murmured, my hearts beating ever so fast!
Who gave you permission to drink so much?
Xiren retorted.
Xiaoyan and Sier, who had felt dizzy too, had already gone to bed.
Only Qingwen was still trying to rouse them.
No need to wake them, Baoyu remonstrated.
Lets just get some rest anyhow.
With that, lying back on his pillow of fragrant red petals, he curled up and went to sleep too.
Xiren feared that Fangguan was so drunk that she might be sick, so she quietly helped her over to lie down next to Baoyu, then sank down on the opposite couch herself.
They all slept then, oblivious of everything around them.
When Xiren next opened her eyes the day was bright.
So late!
she exclaimed.
Seeing Fangguan still sleeping on the edge of the kang she got up quickly to wake her.
But by this time Baoyu had turned over and woken up.
It is late!
he chuckled, nudging Fangguan to make her get up.
Fangguan sat up, still drowsy, rubbing her eyes.
Arent you ashamed?
Xiren laughed.
You were so drunk you didnt care where you flopped down to sleep.
Fangguan stared round, and when she discovered that she had shared Baoyus bed she at once scrambled up.
How is it that I dont remember a thing?
she answered laughingly.
That goes for me too, rejoined Baoyu.
If Id known, Id have blackened your face with ink.
Some young maids came in now to help them with their toilet.
I gave you a lot of trouble yesterday, declared Baoyu.
Tonight Im going to throw a return party.
No, we mustnt raise another rumpus today, said Xiren.
If we did, people would complain.
Why should we care?
he retorted.
Its only a couple of times.
But we must be good drinkers if we managed to finish that whole vat of wine.
Things were just getting lively when we ran out of wine.
Thats what made it so good, said Xiren.
If wed drunk to our full capacity, it wouldnt seem such fun looking back.
Yesterday we all did fine, and Qingwen actually forgot her scruples.
I remember that she even sang a song.
Have you forgotten, sister, that even you sang one too?
demanded Sier.
Everyone at the party sang.
They all blushed then, hiding their faces in their hands, and were giving way to fits of laughter when Pinger came in.
Ive come in person, she announced merrily, to invite all the people at the party yesterday.
Today Im standing treat.
Everybody must come.
They asked her to take a seat and drink some tea.
Its a pity we didnt have her here last night, observed Qingwen.
What did you do last night?
she asked.
We cant tell you, Xiren replied.
Things were so lively, it was far more fun than even those times when Their Ladyships gave us parties.
We finished up a whole vat of wine then after drinking we all forgot ourselves and started singing, really let ourselves go!
Finally not till after the fourth watch we lay down just anywhere to sleep it off.
Fine goings-on!
exclaimed Pinger.
You asked me for the wine but didnt invite me, then tell me this to provoke me.
Hes giving a return party today and is sure to invite you, Qingwen assured her.
Just wait.
He?
Who is he?
asked Pinger with a smile.
Qingwen made as if to slap her, protesting laughingly, Why do you have such sharp ears?
Im too busy to bandy words with you now, Pinger told her.
I must be off to see to some business.
Later on Ill send to invite you.
If anyone fails to turn up, Ill come and knock down your door.
Baoyu wanted to urge her to stay, but she was already gone.
After he had finished his toilet and was drinking tea he suddenly caught sight of a piece of paper under the inkstone.
Its no good, he scolded, the way you stuff things carelessly just anywhere you please.
Xiren and Qingwen hastily asked what was wrong.
Baoyu pointed at the paper.
Whats this under the inkstone?
One of you must have forgotten to put your patterns away.
Qingwen took the paper from under the inkstone and saw it was a greeting card on a sheet of pink stationery.
She passed it to Baoyu who read Miaoyu, the one outside the threshold, sends respectful greetings on the young masters birthday.
At once he sprang to his feet.
Who brought this in?
he demanded.
Why wasnt I told?
The state he was in made Xiren and Qingwen suppose that this was a greeting from someone of consequence.
Who accepted this card yesterday?
they both asked together.
Sier rushed in to explain, Miaoyu didnt come herself but sent an old servant with this, so I put it there.
But after all that drinking I forgot it.
When the other girls heard this they commented, We thought it was someone who mattered, the way you were carrying on but this isnt worth making such a fuss about.
Baoyu, however, immediately asked for some paper and while spreading it out and grinding ink wondered how to word a reply matching that phrase outside the threshold.
Brush in hand he thought hard for a long time, but could not hit on anything appropriate.
He reflected, If I consult Baochai, shes bound to criticize this as eccentric.
Id better ask Daiyu.
So tucking the card up his sleeve he set off to find her and had just passed Seeping Fragrance Pavilion when he saw Xiuyan approaching with swaying steps.
Where are you going, cousin?
he inquired.
To have a chat with Miaoyu, was the answer.
In surprise he remarked, Shes so aloof and unconventional that she looks down on everybody.
If she thinks so highly of you, this shows youre not vulgar like the rest of us.
She may not really think highly of me, replied Xiuyan with a smile, but we were next-door neighbours for ten years when she was practising asceticism in Curly Fragrance Nunnery.
My family was poor, and we lived for ten years in a house rented from the nunnery so I often went in to see her when I was free, and shes the one who taught me all the characters I know.
Apart from being friends in poverty, she was half my teacher too.
After we had left the nunnery to join our relatives, I heard that because shed offended certain powerful people by her eccentric ways she had to come here for protection too.
So as luck would have it we met again, and our old feeling for each other hadnt changed in fact shes even kinder to me than before.
Much impressed by this account Baoyu said with delight, No wonder your own behaviour and conversation are as unworldly as a wild stork or floating clouds!
So this is the reason, Im stumped just now by something connected with her and was on my way to ask somebodys advice.
Meeting you is a heaven-sent chance.
You must tell me what to do.
Then he showed the card to Xiuyan.
She hasnt changed in the least, observed Xiuyan with a smile.
She was born like this headstrong and eccentric.
Ive never seen other people use appellations like this in greeting cards.
Why, this, as the saying goes, is neither fish, flesh nor fowl!
It doesnt make sense.
But you see shes not one of us, Baoyu put in.
Shes outside the mundane crowd.
Shes only sent me this greeting because she thinks I have some slight discernment.
But Im at a loss as to how to word my reply.
I was on my way to ask Cousin Daiyu when luckily I met you.
Hearing this, Xiuyan looked him up and down for a while.
She then said cheerfully, As the proverb says, To know someone by repute is not as good as meeting face to face.
No wonder Miaoyu sent you this greeting card no wonder she gave you that plum-blossom last year.
As even she shows you special consideration, I shall have to explain this to you.
She often says that the only good poetry written by the ancients from the times of Han, un, the Five Dynasties, Tang and Song, was the two lines -755 For a thousand years you may have an iron threshold.
But the end must be a mound of earth.
This is why she calls herself the one outside the threshold.
She likes the writings of Zhuang Zi, from which she took that term the odd person.
If she called herself the odd person in her card, you could call yourself the mundane person, meaning youre one of the common herd, and that would please her.
Now that shes called herself the one outside the threshold, meaning shes outside the iron threshold, to fall in with her you should call yourself the one inside the threshold.
Baoyu felt as if Buddha had suddenly shown him the light.
Aiya!
he exclaimed.
No wonder our family temple is called Iron Threshold Temple.
So thats the origin of the name.
Well, cousin, I wont hold you up any longer.
I must go and write a reply.
Then Xiuyan went on to Green Lattice Nunnery while Baoyu went back to write on a card With the deepest respects of Baoyu, the one inside the threshold.
Taking this himself to the nunnery, he slipped it through a crack in the gate, then went back.
He found that Fangguan had finished doing her hair, which was fastened up in a knot, and she was wearing some trinkets.
At once he insisted on her dressing in a different style.
He urged her to shave off her fringe completely, exposing her bluish scalp, and to part her hair in the middle.
He also said that in winter she should wear a sable cap in the shape of a crouching hare and small tiger-head battle boots decorated with multi-coloured curling clouds, or leave her trouser ends loose and wear white socks and thick-soled boots.
He objected to the name Fangguan as well, saying it would be more original to take a mans name instead, and proposing the name Xiongnu.
3 Fangguan was delighted.
In that case, she said, when you go out you must take me along, and if anyone asks who I am just tell them Im a page like Mingyan.
Still, people will be able to see who you are, he chuckled.
How dense you are, I must say!
she retorted.
We have some families of tribesmen here just say Im from one of those.
Besides, everyone tells me I look better with my hair plaited.
Wouldnt that be the smart thing to do?
Splendid!
approved Baoyu elatedly.
Ive often seen officials with followers captured from abroad, as such people can stand wind and frost and are excellent horsemen.
In that case, Ill give you a tribal name Yali Xiongnu.
Those are names used by the tribes who have been a scourge to China since the days of Yao and Shun, and who plagued us so much during the Jin and Tang dynasties.
Were lucky to be living now under the rule of an Emperor directly descended from the sage king Shun, an age when virtue, humanity and filial piety as vast as Heaven are manifest, and in a dynasty which will endure as long as the sun and moon.
Thats why all the unruly barbarians who made such trouble in previous dynasties now submit to us with folded hands and bowed heads according to Heavens will, without our having to resort to arms and distant tribes have surrendered to our rule.
So we should make fun of them to add to the glory of our sovereign.
If thats how you feel, countered Fangguan, you should go and practise archery and horsemanship and learn other martial arts, then set off to the border to capture some rebels!
Wouldnt that show your loyalty better than using us to do it?
Youre simply wagging your tongue for your own amusement, on the pretext of praising the states achievements and virtue.
Thats exactly what you dont understand, replied Baoyu laughingly.
Now the Four Seas have submitted to our rule and peace reigns everywhere so for ages to come there will be no need for arms.
And even when having fun we should praise the court, so as not to be unworthy to enjoy the fruits of peace.
Fangguan agreed to this, and as both of them felt it quite appropriate he started addressing her as Yali Xiongnu.
Actually the two Jia mansions had been presented by the court with slaves who had been captured by their ancestors but these were only used as grooms, not being fit for other work.
Now Xiangyun was a madcap who loved to dress up as a warrior in a belted, tight-sleeved jacket.
When she saw Baoyu fit Fangguan out as a boy, she followed suit by dressing Kuiguan up as a page too.
Kuiguan, who had played warriors, kept her hair shaved over her temples and forehead as that had made it easier to paint a warriors face, and she was nimble too.
So it was easy to dress her up as a page.
Then Li Wan and Tanchun, also thinking it a good idea, made Baoqins Douguan dress up as a boy too in a short jacket and red shoes with her hair in two tufts.
Had her face been painted, she would have been the spit of the Taoist priests acolyte who carries his masters lyre on the stage.
Xiangyun changed Kuiguans name to Daying, and as her family name was Wei she was called Wei Daying 4 for in choosing this name Xiangyun had in mind the phrase Only a true hero can keep his true colour.
Why, to appear a man, should one resort to rouge or powder?
Douguan 5 had been given that name because she was both small and young and a clever little imp.
So in the Garden she was also called Adou or Fried Pea.
Thinking that to give her a name like Lyre-boy or bookboy would sound vulgar, and that Dou was more original, Baoqin called her Doutong.
6 That afternoon when Pinger gave a return feast she had several tables of new wine and good dishes set out in Elm Shade Hall, saying that it was too warm in Red Fragrance Farm.
To everybodys delight, Madam You brought over her husbands two concubines Peifeng and Xieyuan, two attractive young women who seldom had a chance to enjoy themselves in the Garden.
Coming here now and meeting Xiangyun, Xiangling, Fangguan, Ruiguan and the other girls, it was a genuine case of like attracts like or birds of a feather flock together.
Chatting and laughing with each other they paid no attention to Madam You, leaving it to the maids to wait on her while they amused themselves with the other girls.
When presently they went to Happy Red Court and heard Baoyu call Yali Xiongnu, the two concubines and Xiangling burst out laughing and asked what language this was.
They tried to say this name themselves but kept getting it wrong, sometimes forgetting one character or even calling her Yell, 7 which made all who heard them double up with mirth.
Fearing that Fangguan might feel hurt, Baoyu hastily interposed Ive heard that west of the ocean, in France, theyve a type of precious golden-starred glass which in their language they call venturina.
Suppose we compare you with that and change your name to Venturina?
Fangguan was pleased and readily agreed.
Accordingly they changed her name again.
However, the others still found this a tongue-twister, so they translated it into Chinese and took to calling her Boli.
8 But enough of this.
They returned now to Elm Shade Hall to amuse themselves there on the pretext of drinking.
Some women story-tellers were told to beat the drum and Pinger plucked a spray of peony then everyone twenty or so in all passed this round and the one who had it when the drumming stopped had to drink.
They had been making merry for some time when it was announced that two serving-women had come with presents from the Zhen family.
Tanchun, Li Wan and Madam You went to the hail to receive them, and the rest left Elm Shade Hall to stroll outside.
Peifeng and Xieyuan went to take turns on the swing.
Both get on together and Ill push you, offered Baoyu.
Oh no, said Peifeng in dismay.
Dont get us into trouble.
Better ask your Wild Ass to come and push us instead.
Stop teasing, sister, he begged.
Otherwise other people will follow your example and make fun of her too.
If youre limp from laughing, how can you swing?
warned Xieyuan.
Youll fall off and get smashed like an egg!
Peifeng ran to catch her, and they were scuffling in fun when some servants from the Eastern Manison came rushing up frantically.
The old masters ascended to Heaven!
they announced.
Everybody was consternated.
He wasnt even ill, how could he pass away so suddenly?
they exclaimed.
The servants explained, His Lordship took elixirs every day now he must have achieved his aim and become an immortal.
Madam You was most worried by this news for as her husband Jia Zhen, their son Rong, and Jia Lian too were all away, there was no man at home to take charge.
She hurriedly took off her finery and sent a steward to Mysterious Truth Temple to have all the Taoist priests there locked up until her husband came back to question them.
Then she hastily went by carriage out of the city with the wives of Lai Sheng and some other stewards, having also sent for doctors to see what illness her father-in-law had succumbed to.
As Jia Jing was dead it was no use for the doctors to feel his pulse.
They knew, however, that for years he had been practising absurd Taoist breathing exercises.
As for his yoga, worship of the stars, keeping vigil on certain nights, taking sulphide of mercury and wearing himself out with his senseless striving for immortality these were what had carried him off.
His belly after death was hard as iron, the skin of his face and lips parched, cracked and purple .
They reported to the serving-women that he had died of excessive heat as a result of taking Taoist drugs.
The Taoist priests in their panic confessed, His Lordship had just concocted a new elixir with some secret formula, and that was his undoing.
Wed warned him not to take such things before achieving a certain potency but last night, during his vigil, unknown to us he took some and became an immortal.
Doubtless he has attained immortality owing to his piety, leaving this sea of woe and sloughing his earthly integument to fare forth at will.
Madam You, shutting her ears to this, ordered them to be immured until Jia Zhens return.
And she sent messengers posthaste to take the news.
Seeing that the temple was too cramped for the coffin to be left there, and as it could not be taken into the city, she had the corpse shrouded and conveyed by sedan-chair to Iron Threshold Temple.
She reckoned that her husband could not be back for another fortnight at least, and as the weather was too hot for the funeral to be delayed she decided to get an astrologer to choose a day for it.
As the coffin had been prepared many years ago, and kept ever since in the temple, the funeral was easily managed.
Three days later a mourning service was held and further masses were performed while waiting for Jia Zhen.
Since Xifeng of the Rong Mansion could not leave home and Li Wan had to look after the girls, while Baoyu knew nothing of practical affairs, the work outside was entrusted to a few second-rank stewards.
Jia Bin, ha Guang, Jia Heng, Jia Ying, Jia Chang and ha Ling also had their different assignments.
Madam You, being unable to go home, invited her step-mother old Mrs. You to come and keep an eye on things in the Ning Mansion.
And Mrs. You, to be easy in her mind, had to bring her two unmarried daughters with her.
When Jia Zhen heard of his fathers death he immediately asked for leave, as did Jia Rong who also had official duties.
The Board of Ceremony, well aware that the Emperor set great store by filial piety, dared make no decision themselves but reported the request to the throne.
The Emperor, with his transcendent benevolence and filial piety, always treated the descendants of meritorious ministers with special consideration.
As soon as he saw the memorial he asked what official post ha Jing had held, and the Board of Ceremony reported that he had been a Palace Graduate, whose ancestors noble title had passed on to his son Jia Zhen.
Being old and infirm Jia Jing had retired to live quietly in Mysterious Truth Temple outside the city, where he had now died of illness.
His son Zhen and his grandson Rong were both at court on account of the state obsequies.
They had therefore asked leave to return to attend to the funeral.
When the Emperor heard this, in his exceeding kindness he decreed Though Jia Jing was an ordinary citizen who performed no special service for the state, in view of his grand-fathers merit he is to be promoted posthumously to the fifth rank.
His son and grandson are to escort his coffin through the lower north gate into the capital for a funeral ceremony at his own home, so that his descendants can mourn for him as is there, and as it could not be taken into the city, she had the corpse shrouded and conveyed by sedan-chair to Iron Threshold Temple.
She reckoned that her husband could not be back for another fortnight at least, and as the weather was too hot for the funeral to be delayed she decided to get an astrologer to choose a day for it.
As the coffin had been prepared many years ago, and kept ever since in the temple, the funeral was easily managed.
Three days later a mourning service was held and further masses were performed while waiting for ha Zhen.
Since Xifeng of the Rong Mansion could not leave home and Li Wan had to look after the girls, while Baoyu knew nothing of practical affairs, the work outside was entrusted to a few second-rank stewards.
Jia Bin, Jia Guang, Jia Heng, Jia Ying, Jia Chang and Jia Ling also had their different assignments.
Madam You, being unable to go home, invited her step-mother old Mrs. You to come and keep an eye on things in the Ning Mansion.
And Mrs. You, to be easy in her mind, had to bring her two unmarried daughters with her.
When Jia Zhen heard of his fathers death he immediately asked for leave, as did Jia Rong who also had official duties.
The Board of Ceremony, well aware that the Emperor set great store by filial piety, dared make no decision themselves but reported the request to the throne.
The Emperor, with his transcendent benevolence and filial piety, always treated the descendants of meritorious ministers with special consideration.
As soon as he saw the memorial he asked what official post ha Jing had held, and the Board of Ceremony reported that he had been a Palace Graduate, whose ancestors noble title had passed on to his son Jia Zhen.
Being old and infirm ha Jing had retired to live quietly in Mysterious Truth Temple outside the city, where he had now died of illness.
His son Zhen and his grandson Rong were both at court on account of the state obsequies.
They had therefore asked leave to return to attend to the funeral.
When the Emperor heard this, in his exceeding kindness he decreed Though Jia Jing was an ordinary citizen who performed no special service for the state, in view of his grand-fathers merit he is to be promoted posthumously to the fifth rank.
His son and grandson are to escort his coffin through the lower north gate into the capital for a funeral ceremony at his own home, so that his descendants can mourn for him as is fitting before escorting his remains to their ancestral district.
Let the office of Imperial Banquets bestow on the deceased a sacrificial feast of the first grade, and let all at court from princes and dukes downwards be granted leave to offer their condolences.
By Imperial Decree!
As soon as this decree was issued, not only did the Jia family express thanks for the Emperors goodness, all the high ministers at court were loud in their praise.
Jia Zhen and his son were speeding home posthaste when they saw Jia Bin and ha Guang galloping towards them, attended by some servants.
At sight of Jia Zhen they hastily dismounted to pay their respects.
Asked their errand Jia Bin reported, Sister-in-law was afraid that after you and our nephew came back there would be nobody to travel with the old lady, so she sent us to escort Her Ladyship.
Jia Zhen expressed full approval, then asked how matters had been arranged at home, and Jia Bin described how the Taoist priests had been detained and the corpse taken to the family temple and how, as there was no one in charge at home, old Mrs. You and her two daughters had been invited to stay and accommodation found for them in the main building.
Jia Rong had also dismounted.
When he heard of the arrival of his two young aunts, he grinned at his father who was reiterating Well done, well done!
They galloped on then, not stopping at any inns but changing horses at different post-houses as they sped back through the night.
And upon reaching the capital they went straight to Iron Threshold Temple.
It was then the fourth watch and the watch-men, hearing them, aroused everyone in the place.
Jia Zhen alighted and with Jia Rong wailed aloud, both advancing on their knees from outside the gate to where the coffin was resting, kowtowing and lamenting all the way.
They went on wailing till dawn, by which time their voices were hoarse.
Madam You and the others all came to meet them.
Then Jia Zhen and his son, having changed into mourning according to the rites, prostrated themselves before the coffin.
However, since they had business to attend to which they could not ignore, they had to curtail their mourning in order to issue instructions.
Jia Zhen read out the Imperial Decree to their relatives and friends, then sent Jia Rong home first to arrange for the removal of the coffin there.
Jia Rong had been eagerly awaiting this order.
He rode swiftly home and hastily gave instructions for the tables and chairs to be cleared away from the front hall, the partitions removed, white mourning curtains hung up, and a shed for musicians as well as an arch erected in front of the gate.
This done, he hurried in to greet his step-grandmother and two aunts.
Now Mrs. You, being old and fond of sleeping, often lay down on the couch to have a nap while her two daughters were sewing with the maids.
When they saw Jia Rong they expressed their condolences.
Beaming all over his face he said to his second aunt So youre here again, Second Auntie.
My fathers been longing for you!
Second Sister You blushed.
You rascal!
she swore at him.
You cant get by if I dont curse you every other day!
Youre going from bad to worse, with absolutely no sense of whats proper.
Imagine the son of a good family, who studies and is taught manners all the time, not even being up to low-class riffraff.
She picked up an iron and grabbed his head as if to hit him, whereupon, shielding his head, he nestled close to her and begged for mercy.
Third Sister You reached out to pinch his lips.
Wait till our elder sister hears of this, she scolded.
Chuckling, Jia Rong knelt on the kang to ask their pardon, at which both the sisters laughed.
Then he tried to snatch some cardamom from his second aunt, who spat what she was chewing all over his face but he just licked it off and ate it, shocking the maids who were there.
Youre wearing mourning and your grandmother is napping here, one of them remonstrated.
And after all theyre your aunts, for all theyre young.
You really havent much respect for your mother.
Presently we shall tell the master, and then youll be in big trouble.
Jia Rong let go of his aunt then and grabbing hold of the maid kissed her on the mouth.
Youre quite right, sweetheart, he cried.
Now lets make both their mouths water!
The maids pushed him away.
You short-lived devil!
they cursed.
Youve a wife and maids of your own just like anyone else why come to plague us?
Some people may know this is just fooling about but there are other dirty-minded busybodies who like to gossip.
They may spread so much talk that everyone in the other house hears about it.
Theyll be saying were all fast and loose here.
Were two different households, scoffed Jia Rong.
We should both mind our own business.
Havent we all enough troubles of our own?
Since ancient times, even the Han and Tang dynasties have been described as filthy Tang and stinking Han, to say nothing of families like ours.
Which household hasnt its share of philanderers?
Shall I give you a few examples?
Even though the Elder Master over there is so strict, Uncle Lian carried on with his young concubines and though Aunt Xifeng is so stern, Uncle Rui tried to make her.
Neither affair was any secret to me.... As Jia Rong was rattling away so wildly he noticed that the old lady had woken up, and made haste to pay his respects.
Sorry to have put you to so much trouble, Old Ancestress, he said.
And my two aunts as well.
My father and I are most grateful.
When this business is over, we shall take the whole family, young and old, to your place to kowtow our thanks.
Old Mrs. You nodded.
Its good of you to say that, my child, she replied.
Were only acting as relatives should.
Then she asked, Is your father well?
When did you get the message and hurry back?
Weve only just arrived, he told her.
He sent me on ahead to see how you are, madam, and to beg you to stay till the whole business is finished.
As he said this he winked at his second aunt.
Gritting her teeth and smiling, Second Sister You scolded softly, You glib-tongued monkey!
Are you keeping us here to be your fathers mothers?
Dont worry, madam, said Jia Rong to old Mrs. You.
Not a day goes by but my father is thinking of my two aunts and looking for two well-born, handsome young gentlemen from rich and noble families to arrange two matches for them.
For some years he couldnt find anyone suitable.
Luckily, on his way home this time, he met just the right man.
Old Mrs. You was only too ready to believe him.
What family is he from?
she promptly asked.
The two sisters put down their sewing at this to chase him playfully and pummel him.
Dont you believe the rascal, mother, one of them cried.
Even the maids protested, Old Man Heaven has eyes.
Look out, or youll be struck by a thunderbolt!
Just then someone came in to announce, Weve made everything ready.
Please go and have a look, Master Rong, and report it to His Lordship.
Then ha Rong went out chuckling to himself.
To know what happened later, read the next chapter.
Chapter 64 A Chaste Girl in Sad Seclusion Writes Poems on Five Beauties An Amorous Libertine Drops His Nine-Dragon Pendant Jia Rong hurried back to the temple to report to his father that all was ready at home and that same night they assigned the various tasks and prepared all the pennons, poles and other essential paraphernalia.
Five oclock in the morning of the fourth day was fixed upon as the hour to have the coffin taken into the city, and all relatives and friends were informed of this.
When the time arrived, with its splendid funeral rites, a host of guests assembled, and tens of thousands of spectators lined the road all the way from Iron Threshold Temple to the Ning Mansion, some sighing in admiration, others in envy, while crabbed pedants argued that frugality in the funeral rites would have been better than such extravagance.
Endless different comments were made as the cortege passed and not till nearly three in the afternoon did it finally reach the Ning Mansion, where the coffin was deposited in the main halt.
After the sacrifice and mourning ended, the relatives and friends gradually dispersed, leaving only members of the Jia clan to see to the entertaining of guests.
The sole close relative to remain was Lady Xings elder brother.
Jia Zhen and Jia Rong, by duty bound to keep vigil by the coffin and mourn, nevertheless seized the chance once the guests had gone to fool around with old Mrs. Yous two daughters.
Baoyu, wearing mourning, also went every day to the Ning Mansion, not returning to the Garden till the evening after the guests had left.
Xifeng was still not well enough to stay there all the time but when Buddhist masses were held and sutras read, or when visitors came to offer sacrifices, she made the effort to come over to help Madam You cope.
One day after the morning sacrifice, at a time when the days were stilt tong, Jia Zhen worn out after his recent exertions was dozing by the coffin and Baoyu, seeing that no guests had come, decided to go back to call on Daiyu.
He went first to Happy Red Court.
As he stepped through the gate he found the court quiet and empty except for a few old women and young maids resting in the shade of the verandah, some asleep and others nodding drowsily.
He did not go to disturb them, and only Sier noticed his arrival.
As she hurried over to lift the portiere for him, Fangguan came dashing out, laughing, and nearly knocked full tilt into Baoyu.
At sight of him she pulled up.
Why are you here?
she asked.
Hurry up and stop Qingwen from spanking me!
As she was speaking they heard a clattering as if some things had fallen to the ground, and the next minute Qingwen appeared.
Where are you going, you bitch?
she swore.
Youve lost, yet you want to escape a spanking.
With Baoyu out whos going to come to your rescue?
Baoyu hastily intercepted her.
Shes still young, he said with a smile.
If shes offended you in some way, do let her off for my sake.
Qingwen had never expected him back so soon.
Amused by his sudden appearance, she exclaimed, Fangguan must be a fox-fairy!
Why, not even a magic charm to conjure spirits could work so fast.
She added, But Im not afraid, even if youve called in a god.
She made a grab at Fangguan, who had taken refuge behind Baoyu.
Holding each girl by the hand he ted them inside.
On the western kang there he found Sheyue, Qiuwen, Bihen and Zixiao playing knuckle-bones for melon-seeds.
Apparently Fangguan had lost to Qingwen, then refused to accept a spanking and run away and Qingwen, jumping up to chase her, had scattered the knuckle-bones on her lap all over the floor.
Baoyu told them with a chuckle.
Now the days are so long, I was afraid you might alt be bored while I was out and go to bed after your meal, which might make you fall ill, Im glad you found a way to amuse yourselves.
As there was no sign of Xiren, he asked, Wheres your sister Xiren?
Her?
said Qingwen.
Shes becoming more and more of a Confucian, sitting meditating alone with her face to the watt in the inner room.
We havent been in for some time and dont know what shes up to.
She hasnt made a sound.
Go on in, quick, and see if shes attained sainthood yet.
Laughing, Baoyu went inside and saw Xiren seated on the couch by the window, in her hand a skein of grey silk which she was netting.
At sight of him she stood up.
What fibs has that creature Qingwen been telling about me?
she asked.
1 was in a hurry to finish this net and had no time to fool around with them, so I told them, You amuse yourselves.
While the Second Masters out I want to sit quietly here for a while to rest.
Then she made up all that nonsense about me meditating and attaining sainthood.
By and by I must go and pinch her lips!
Baoyu smiled as he sat down beside her to watch her at work.
The days are so long, you should rest or amuse yourself with the others, he advised.
Or else go to see Cousin Daiyu.
Why work at this in such hot weather?
Whats it for?
I noticed that youre still using the fan case made that year when Madam Rong of the East Mansion died.
As its blue it should only be used while mourning in summer for one of our clan or for relatives and friends outside.
It shouldnt normally be needed more than once or twice a year.
Now theres mourning in the other house, of course you should wear it every day when you go over so Im hurrying to finish another for you to replace that old one.
You dont care about such things, but if the old lady were to come back and see it, shed scold us for being too lazy to fit you out properly.
Its good of you to think of such things, but you mustnt overwork, he answered.
We dont want you knocked out by the heat.
Now Fangguan brought in a cup of freshly brewed tea which had been cooled in cold water for even in summer they dared not use ice, as Baoyu was so delicate.
Instead they immersed the tea-pot in water fresh from the well, changing the water from time to time until the tea was cool.
Fangguan held the cup to Baoyus lips and he drank half of it.
Then he told Xiren, When I came, I left word with Beiming that if any important visitors come to Cousin Jia Zhens place he must let me know directly.
If nothing urgent crops up I wont go back.
As he turned to go out he instructed Bihen and the others, If anything happens you can find me in Miss Lins place.
With that he set off for Bamboo Lodge to find Daiyu.
As he was crossing Seeping Fragrance Bridge he saw Xueyan approaching, behind her two old women who were carrying caltrops, lotus-root, melons and other fruit.
Your mistress hardly ever eats cold things like these.
What are you going to do with all this?
he asked.
Are you inviting some of the other young ladies?
If I tell you, you mustnt let her know, said Xueyan.
Baoyu nodded.
Then she told the two women, Take this fruit to Sister Zijuan.
If she asks for me, tell her Ive something to do and will soon be back.
The women assented and went on their way.
Our young ladys been feeling better the last few days, said Xueyan when they had gone.
After lunch today Miss Tanchun came to ask her to go with her to see Madam Lian, but she didnt go.
And then I dont know what she was thinking of she had a fit of depression, after which she took up her brush and wrote something whether poetry of something else I dont know.
When she sent me to fetch this fruit I also heard her tell Zijuan to clear away the things on the small lyre table and move it outside, then to put the tripod with dragon designs on the table ready for the melons and fruit.
If she were going to entertain visitors, she wouldnt bother to set out an incense-burner first if she were going to burn incense, shes not in the habit of scenting her clothes with it or having anything in the room except fresh flowers and fruit.
Even when she does burn incense for the fragrance, its usually in her sitting room or bedchamber.
Could it be that she has to scent the place with incense because the old serving-women have made it smelly?
I really dont know why else shes doing this.
Having said this she hurried away.
Baoyu involuntarily lowered his head to think this over.
Judging by what Xueyan said, there must be a reason, he thought.
If Daiyu were expecting one of the girls to call, shed hardly make such elaborate preparations.
Can this be the anniversary of her fathers or mothers death?
But in the past, on those days, I remember the old lady always had dishes specially prepared for her to offer as a private sacrifice and both those dates have passed.
More likely, as the seventh month is the season for melons and fruit and every family is making an autumn sacrifice at its graves, shes felt moved to sacrifice privately in her own quarters, according to the precept in the Book of Rites that in autumn and spring one should offer the food in season.
That may be it.
But if I go there now and find her upset, I shall have to do my best to comfort her then she may try to hide her unhappiness, so that it rankles.
On the other hand, if I dont go, therell be no one to stop her grieving too much.
Either way, she may fall ill.
The best thing would be to call on Xifeng first, just for a short while, then come back.
If I find Daiyu still upset I can try to console her.
That way, she wont give way to grief too long, but by having a good cry shell have vented her feelings without injuring her health.
Having reached this decision he left the Garden and went to Xifengs place.
A number of serving-women were coming out after having reported on the business in their charge, and Xifeng, leaning against the door, was chatting with Pinger.
At sight of Baoyu she smiled.
So youre back, she said.
Ive just told Lin Zhixiaos .wife to send word to your pages that if there was nothing much to do you should take the chance to come back and rest a bit.
Besides, with all that crowd there, the place is too stifling for you.
Well, Im glad youve come back of your own accord.
Thank you for your concern, he answered.
It was because there was nothing to do today and I was wondering whether you were better, as you hadnt been over for a couple of days, that I came back to have a look.
Thats just the way it is with me, Xifeng told him.
I have my good days and my bad days.
With Their Ladyships away from home, these women ai!
not a single one of them behaves herself.
Every day they either fight or squabble, and thereve even been several cases of gambling and theft.
Although Tanchuns helping me see to things, shes an unmarried girl.
There are some things I can tell her, others I cant.
So I just have to bear up as best I can, and never have a moments peace.
Dont talk about getting better if I dont get worse thats good enough for me.
Even so, you must take good care of your health and worry less, he urged her.
After a little further chat he took his leave of Xifeng and went back to the Garden.
When he entered Bamboo Lodge, he saw that the incense in the burner was nearly burnt out and the libation had already been poured.
Zijuan was supervising the maids carrying the table inside and replacing the ornaments on it.
Knowing that the sacrifice was over, Baoyu went in and found Daiyu reclining on the couch, her face to the wall.
She looked ill and exhausted.
Zijuan announced, Master Bao is here.
Daiyu got up slowly then and with a smile invited him to sit down.
You seem much better recently, he remarked.
You look less flushed.
But whats upset you again?
Thats no way to talk, she retorted.
Theres nothing wrong with me.
Why should I be upset?
Youve tear-stains on your face, why try to fool me?
I just thought that being so delicate you should take things easy, not distress yourself for no purpose.
If you spoil your health, Ill be....
He broke off here, finding it difficult to go on.
Though he and Daiyu had grown up side by side and were kindred spirits who longed to live and die together, this was simply tacitly understood by both but had never been put into words.
Moreover Daiyu was so sensitive that his careless way of talking always offended her or even reduced her to tears.
Today he had come to comfort her but again, without meaning to, had spoken too hastily so that he had to break off, desperately afraid that Daiyu would be angry.
And when he reflected that he had really meant well, he started shedding tears of distress.
Daiyu had been annoyed at first by Baoyus immoderate language.
Now, touched by the state he was in, being prone to weeping herself, she started shedding tears in silence too.
Zijuan, arriving with tea for them, supposed they were bickering over something again.
Our young ladys just getting better, Master Bao, she said.
What -378 do you mean by coming to provoke her again?
Baoyu wiped his tears and smiled.
I wouldnt dream of provoking her, he protested, getting up to wander around.
He noticed a sheet of paper under the inkstone and reached out for it.
At once Daiyu started up to stop him, but he had already tucked it inside his clothes.
Do let me see it, dear cousin, he begged with a smile.
Regardless of when you come you ransack this place.
As Daiyu was saying this Baochai dropped in.
What is it that Cousin Bao wants to read?
she asked.
As Baoyu had not yet seen what was on the paper and did not know what Daiyus reaction would be, he dared not answer outright.
Instead, he looked at Daiyu with a smile.
Daiyu offered Baochai a seat.
Ive read of many talented beauties in ancient history, she said, whose lives were sometimes enviable, sometimes tragic.
As Id nothing to do today after my meal, I decided to choose a few of them and dash off some verses about them to express my feelings.
Then Tanchun came to ask me to call on Xifeng with her, but I felt too lazy to go.
Id just written half a dozen poems when I felt sleepy, so I tossed them aside, not expecting the Second Master to come in and see them.
Actually I dont mind him reading them, but I dont want him to copy them out and go showing them to other people.
When have I ever done such a thing?
asked Baoyu.
As for that fan, because I liked those poems about white begonia I copied them out neatly on it just for my own convenience when I have it in my hands.
Of course I know that the poems and calligraphy from our inner apartments mustnt be lightly taken outside.
And remembering that time you ticked me off Ive never taken it out of the Garden.
Cousin Lins right to have such scruples, said Baichai.
As youve written our poems on your fan, you may forget and take it to your study where the secretaries may see them and ask who wrote them.
If word spread, it wouldnt look good.
As the old saying goes, Lack of talent in a woman is a virtue.
The important thing for us is to be chaste and quiet, feminine accomplishments being secondary.
As for versifying and the like, we simply do that for fun in the inner apartments and whether were good or not at it doesnt matter.
Girls from families like ours dont want to have a reputation for brilliance.
Then she said to Daiyu with a smile, Still it doesnt matter if you show them to me, provided Cousin Bao doesnt take them outside.
In that case you neednt see them either, said Daiyu.
Pointing at Baoyu she added, Hes already snatched them.
At that Baoyu took the poems out of his pocket and stepped to Baochais side to read them with her.
The poems were as follows XI SHI 1 -755 Gone with the foam the beauty who felled cities, Her longing for home in Wus palace an empty dream, Laugh not at the East Village girl who aped her ways, White-haired, she still washed clothes beside the stream.
LADY YU 2 -755 Heart-broken as black steed neighing at night in the wind, In silent grief she stayed beside her lord -1035 The renegades Qing Bu and Peng Yue were doomed to be slaughtered Better, then, in Chus tent to fall on her own sword.
WANG ZHAOJUN 3 -755 A breath-taking beauty banished from the Han palace From of old lovely girls have shared a sorry fate Even if the sovereign set little store by his beauties, Why give a painter the power to arbitrate?
GREEN PEARL 4 -755 Rubble and pearls alike were cast away, Shi Chong used this fair maid so slightingly Predestined he was to good fortune -- Together they died, but still lonely in death was she.
RED WHISK 5 -755 From his low bows, proud talk and air of distinction The discerning beauty his true worth foretold The grand duke Yang Su was a living corpse, How could he keep a girl so staunch and bold?
Baoyu having read these poems was loud in his praise.
Youve written just five poems, cousin, he said.
So why not call the whole An Ode to Five Beauties?
Without giving her time to object, he picked up a brush and added this title.
Baochai observed, In writing poetry, no matter what the subject, the important thing is to express some original ideas.
If we tread in other peoples footsteps, even if the lines are polished theyre still second-rate and cant be considered good poetry.
Take, for example, the poems on Wang Zhaojun, all expressing different opinions.
Some lamented her fate, some blamed Mao Yanshou the painter, and others reproached the Han emperor for making him paint portraits of palace beauties instead of good ministers.
Then Wang Anshi 6 wrote -755 A painting can never succeed in catching the spirit Unjust it was to execute Mao Yanshou.
And Ouyang Xiu 7 wrote -755 If the Emperor treated those in his presence like this.
How could he control tribesmen ten thousand ii away?
Both those poems were original, not mere plagiarizing.
And these five Cousin Lin has written today can also be considered as fresh and original, a quite new approach to the subject.
She would have said more, but someone came in to announce Jia Lians return.
It had just been reported outside that he had gone to the East Mansion, and as he had now been there for some time he could be expected back soon.
When Baoyu heard this he hastily got up and went to the main gate to wait for his cousins arrival, just as Jia Lian, having dismounted outside, came in.
Baoyu knelt down and first asked after Their Ladyships health, then inquired after Jia Lians health.
The two of them went hand in hand into the halt, where they found assembled Li Wan, Xifeng, Baochai, Daiyu, Yingchun, Tanchun and Xichun, and greetings were exchanged.
The old lady will be back tomorrow morning, said Jia Lian.
Shes kept very well all through the journey.
Today she sent me back ahead to have a look, and Im to go out of the city at the fifth watch tomorrow to meet her.
Now Jia Lian had long heard of Madam Yous lovely step-sisters and longed to meet them.
Recently, with Jia Jings coffin in the house, he had been seeing Second Sister and Third Sister every day so that he was on familiar terms with them and had designs on them too.
Knowing how free and easy both girls were with Jia Zhen and Jia Rong, he tried in a hundred ways to convey his own feelings, casting arch glances at them.
Third Sister only treated him coolly, however, while Second Sister appeared very interested but since there were so many people about he could not make any advances.
Fear of arousing Jia Zhens jealousy also kept him from acting too rashly.
So the two of them had to be content with a secret understanding.
After the funeral, however, there were few people left in Jia Zhens house.
The main quarters were occupied only by old Mrs. You and her two daughters attended by a few of the maids and serving-women who did the rough work, all the senior maids and concubines having gone to the temple.
As for the female servants who lived outside, they simply kept watch at night and minded the gate in the daytime, and would not go inside unless they had business.
So Jia Lian was eager to make good use of this chance.
He spent the nights in the temple too, on the pretext of keeping Jia Zhen company but he often slipped back to the Ning Mansion to inveigle Second Sister, telling Jia Zhen that he was going to see to the family affairs for him.
One day the young steward Yu Lu came to report to Jia Zhen, The funeral sheds, mourning clothes and blue uniforms for attendants and carriers cost a thousand taels in all, of which weve paid five hundred so were still five hundred short, and the tradesmen have sent to ask for payment.
Thats why Ive come for your instructions, sir.
Just get the money from the treasury.
Why come and ask me for old lady and my other elders.
Then Ill go to your place to make sure that the servants arent making trouble, and call on old Mrs. You as well.
I dont like putting you to so much trouble, objected Jia Zhen.
What does it matter between cousins?
Jia Lian answered.
So Jia Zhen told his son, Go with your uncle, and mind you go too to pay your respects to the old lady, master and mistresses of the other house.
Give them our regards and ask if the old lady is better now or still taking medicine.
Jia Rong assented and went off with Jia Lian.
Taking a few pages with them, they mounted their horses and rode back to the city, chatting idly on the way.
Then Jia Lian deliberately mentioned Second Sister You, praising her for her good looks and modest behaviour, her lady-like ways and gentle speech, as if she were a paragon admired and loved by all.
Everyone praises your Aunt Xifeng, he said, but to my mind she cant stand comparison with your Second Aunt.
Jia Rong, knowing his game, rejoined, If youve taken such a fancy to her, uncle, Ill act as your go-between to make her your secondary wife.
How about that?
That would be fine!
Jia Lian beamed.
Im only afraid your Aunt Xifeng wouldnt agree, and neither might your grandmother.
Besides I heard that your Second Aunt is already engaged.
That doesnt matter, Jia Rong assured him.
My second and third aunts arent my grandfathers daughters but only stepdaughters.
Ive been told that while old Mrs. You was in the other family she promised her second daughter, before the child was born, to the Zhang family who managed the Imperial Farm.
Later the Zhangs were ruined by a lawsuit, and she herself married again into the You family.
Now, for the last ten years or so, the two families have lost touch completely.
Old Mrs. You often complains that shed like to break off the engagement, and my father also wants to find Second Aunt a different husband.
As soon as theyve picked a suitable family, all they need do is send someone to find the Zhangs, pay them a dozen or so taels of silver, and have a deed written breaking off the betrothal.
The Zhangs are so hard up that when they see the silver theyre bound to agree on top of which theyll know that in dealing with a family like ours they cant do anything else.
If a gentleman like you, uncle, wants her as a secondary wife, I guarantee both her mother and my father will be willing.
The only problem is my Aunt Xifeng.
At this Jia Lian was too overjoyed to speak and could only grin foolishly.
After a little reflection Jia Rong continued, If you have the nerve to do as I say, uncle, I guarantee it wilt be all right.
It will simply mean spending a little extra money.
Whats your plan?
Out with it quick!
Of course Ill agree.
Dont let on a word about this when you go home.
Wait till Ive told my father and settled it with my grandmother then well buy a house and the furnishings for it somewhere near the back of our mansion, and install a couple of our servants and their wives there.
That done, well choose a day and you can get married on the sly.
Well forbid the servants to tell anyone about it.
As Aunt Xifeng lives tucked away inside the big mansion, how can she possibly get to know of it?
Then youll have two homes, uncle.
After a year or so, if word does get out, at most youll get reprimanded by your father but you can say that as my aunt had no son you arranged this in secret outside, in the hope of having descendants.
When Aunt Xifeng sees that the rice is already cooked, shell have to put up with it and if you ask the old lady then to put in a word for you, the whole thing will blow over.
As the old proverb says.
Lust befuddles the mind.
Jia Lian was so infatuated by Second Sisters beauty that he felt Jia Rongs plan was foolproof, completely forgetting that he was in mourning and how inappropriate it was to have a concubine outside when he had a stern father and jealous wife at home.
As for Jia Rong, he had ulterior motives.
He was attached to both his young aunts, but his fathers presence at home cramped his style.
If Jia Lian married Second Sister he would have to have a separate establishment outside, where Jia Rong could go to fool about in his absence.
Of course none of this occurred to Jia Lian, who thanked him saying, Good nephew, if you fix this up Ill buy you two really ravishing maids.
By now they had reached the Ning Mansion and Jia Rong said, Uncle, while you go in to get the silver from my grandmother and give it to Yu Lu, Ill go on ahead to call on the old lady.
Jia Lian nodded, then said with a smile, Dont tell the old lady that Ive come with you.
I know.
Jia Rong whispered then into his ear, If you see Second Aunt today, dont act too rashly.
If theres any trouble now, it will make things more difficult in future.
Dont talk rot, chuckled Jia Lian.
Go on.
Ill wait for you here.
Jia Rong accordingly went to pay his respects to the Lady Dowager.
When Jia Lian entered the Ning Mansion, some of the stewards stepped forward with other servants to pay their respects and followed him to the hall.
Jia Lian questioned them briefly for appearances sake, then dismissed them and went in alone.
As he and Jia Zhen were cousins and on a close footing, he was not subject to any restrictions here and did not need to wait to be announced.
He went straight to the main apartment.
The old woman on duty in the corridor lifted the portiere as soon as she saw him and on entering the room he saw Second Sister sewing with two maids on the couch on the south side, but of old Mrs. You and Third Sister there was no sign.
Jia Lian went forward to greet Second Sister, who asked him to take a seat, and he sat down with his back to the east partition.
After an exchange of civilities he asked, Where are your mother and Third Sister?
Why arent they here?
They just went to the back for something theyll be here soon, she told him.
As the maids had gone to fetch tea and there was no one else present, Jia Lian kept darting smiling glances at Second Sister, who lowered her head to hide a smile but did not respond, and he dared not make any further advances.
Seeing that she was toying with the handkerchief to which her pouch was fastened, he felt his waist as if groping for his own pouch.
Ive forgotten to bring my pouch of betel-nuts, he said.
Will you let me try one of yours, sister?
I have some, but I never give mine away.
Smiling, he approached her to take one and afraid this would look bad if someone came in, she laughingly tossed him her pouch.
Having caught it he emptied it out, chose one half-eaten nut which he popped into his mouth, then pocketed all the others.
He was about to return the pouch when the two maids came back with the tea.
As Jia Lian sipped his tea, he surreptitiously took off a Han-Dynasty jade pendant carved with nine dragons and tied this to her handkerchief.
And when both maids were looking the other way, he tossed the handkerchief back.
Second Sister just let it lie and went on drinking her tea, as if she had not noticed.
Then the portiere behind them swished and in came old Mrs. You and Third Sister with two young maids.
With a wink Jia Lian signalled to Second Sister to pick up the handkerchief, but she simply paid no attention and not knowing what she meant by this he felt frantic.
He had to step forward to greet the newcomers.
As he did so, he glanced back at Second Sister, who was still smiling as if nothing had happened.
But looking again he noticed with relief that the handkerchief had vanished.
They all sat down now and chatted for a while.
My sister-in-law says she gave you some silver the other day to keep for her, madam, said Jia Lian.
Today they have to settle an account, so Cousin Zhen sent me to fetch it and to see if everything is all right at home.
On hearing this old Mrs. You immediately sent Second Sister to fetch the key and get the silver.
Jia Lian went on, I wanted to come anyway to pay my respects to you and see both the young ladies.
Its good of you to have come here, madam, but were sorry to be putting our two cousins to such trouble too.
What way is that for close relatives to talk!
she protested.
Weve made ourselves at home here.
The truth is, sir, that since my husband died weve found it hard to make ends meet, and weve only managed thanks to my son-in-laws help.
Now that they have their hands full, we cant help in any other way but at least we can keep an eye on things here for them how can you talk of putting us to trouble?
By now Second Sister had brought the silver and given it to her mother, who passed it to Jia Lian.
He sent a young maid to fetch a serving-woman.
Give this to Yu Lu, he ordered her.
Tell him to take it back to the other house and wait for me there.
As the old woman assented and left, they heard Jia Rongs voice in the courtyard and presently in he came to pay his respects to the ladies.
Just now His Lordship your father was asking about you, uncle, he said.
He has some business he wants you to see to and was gong to send to the temple to fetch you, but I told him youd be coming presently.
His Lordship told me, if I met you, to ask you to hurry.
As Jia Lian rose to leave he heard Jia Rong tell old Mrs. You, The young man I told you about the other day, grandmother, the one my father has in mind for Second Aunt, has much the same features and build as this uncle of mine.
How does he strike you, madam?
As he said this he pointed slyly at Jia Lian and motioned with his lips at Second Sister.
She was too embarrassed to say anything, but her sister scolded What a devilish monkey you are!
Have you nothing else to talk about?
Just wait, Im going to pull out that tongue of yours.
She ran towards him but Jia Rong had slipped out, laughing, and now Jia Lian took his leave of them with a smile.
In the hall he cautioned the servants not to gamble and drink, then secretly urged Jia Rong to hurry back and take the matter up with his father.
Next he took Yu Lu over to the other house to make up the sum of silver needed and while the steward went off with this he paid his respects to his father and the Lady Dowager.
To return to Jia Rong, when he saw that Yu Lu and Jia Lian had gone for the money and he had nothing to do, he went in again to fool around with his two aunts before leaving.
It was evening by the time he got back to the temple and reported to his father, The moneys been given to Yu Lu.
The old ladys much better now and has stopped taking medicine.
He then took this opportunity to describe how Jia Lian had told him on the road of his wish to make Second Sister You his secondary wife and set up house outside, so that Xifeng should know nothing about it.
This is just because hes worried at having no son, Jia Rong explained.
And as hes seen Second Aunt, whos already related to our family, marrying her would be better than getting some girl from a family about which we know nothing.
So uncle repeatedly begged me to propose this to you, father.
He omitted to say that this idea had originated with him.
Jia Zhen thought it over.
Actually, it would be just as well, he said finally.
But we dont know whether your Second Aunt would be willing.
Go and talk it over first with your old granny tomorrow.
Get her to make sure your Second Aunt agress before we make any decision.
Then, having given his son some further instructions, he went to broach the matter to his wife.
Madam You, knowing that this would be improper, did her best to dissuade him but as Jia Zhen had already made up his mind and she was in the habit of falling in with his wishes, and as Second Sister was only her step-sister and she was therefore not so responsible for her, she had to let them go ahead with this preposterous scheme.
Accordingly, the first thing the next day, Jia Rong went back to the city to see old Mrs. You and tell her his fathers proposal.
In addition, he expatiated on Jia Lians good qualities and declared that Xifeng was mortally ill and, if they bought a house to live in outside for the time being, after a year or so when Xifeng died his Second Aunt could move in as the proper wife.
He also described the betrothal presents his father would give, and the wedding ceremony Jia Lian would arrange.
Theyll take you in to live in comfort in your old age, madam, he assured her.
And later theyll see to Third Aunts marriage too.
He painted such a glowing picture that naturally old Mrs. You agreed.
Besides, she was wholly dependent on Jia Zhen for money, and now that he had proposed this match she would not have to provide any dowry.
Furthermore, Jia Lian was a young gentleman from a noble family, ten times better than the wretched Zhang family.
So she went straight to discuss it with her second daughter.
Second Sister was a coquette.
She had already had an affair with Jia Zhen, and it was her constant regret that her betrothal to Zhang Hua prevented her from making a better marriage.
Now that Jia Lian had taken a fancy to her and her brother-in-law himself had proposed the match, of course she was only too willing.
She nodded in assent, and this was at once reported to Jia Rong, who went back to inform his father.
The next day they sent to invite Jia Lian to the temple.
When Jia Zhen told him that old Mrs. You had given her consent, he was so overjoyed that he could not thank Jia Zhen and Jia Rong enough.
They made plans then to send stewards to find a house, have trinkets made and the brides trousseau prepared, as well as the bed, curtains and other furnishings for the bridal chamber.
Within a few days everything was ready.
The house they bought was in Flower Spring Lane about two ii behind the Ning and Rong Street.
it had over twenty rooms.
They also bought two young maids.
In addition, Jia Zhen installed his own servant Bao Er and his wife there to wait on Second Sister after she moved in.
He then sent for Zhang Hua and his father and ordered them to write a deed cancelling the betrothal for old Mrs. You.
Now Zhang Huas grandfather had been in charge of the imperial Farm.
After his death Zhang Huas father had taken his place, and as he was a good friend of old Mrs. Yous first husband, Zhang Hua and Second Sister You had been engaged to each other before they were born.
Later the Zhangs became involved in a lawsuit which ruined their family, leaving them too poor to feed and clothe themselves well, to say nothing of bringing home a bride for their son.
And as old Mrs. You had left her first husbands home, the two families had lost touch for more than ten years.
When the Jia familys stewards summoned Zhang Hua and ordered him to renounce his betrothal to Second Sister You, although unwilling he had to agree for fear of the power which Jia Zhen and the others wielded.
He accordingly wrote a deed cancelling the engagement, and old Mrs. You gave him ten taels of silver, after which the matter was settled.
When Jia Lian saw that all preparations were ready, he chose the third of the next month, an auspicious day, for the wedding, of which more will be told in the next chapter.
Truly -755 Because he lusted after a kinswoman, Husband and wife fell out.
Chapter 65 A Hen-Pecked Young Profligate Takes a Concubine in Secret A Wanton Girl Mends Her Ways and Picks Herself a Husband Jia Lian, Jia Zhen and Jia Rong, consulting together, soon had everything satisfactorily arranged.
On the second of the month, old Mrs. You and Third Sister were escorted first to the new house.
Old Mrs. You saw at a glance that it was not as grand as Jia Rong had claimed still, it appeared quite respectable, and she and her daughter were both satisfied.
Bao Er and his wife gave them an effusive welcome, assiduously addressing old Mrs. You as Old Madam or Old Lady and Third Sister as Third Aunt or Third Young Mistress.
The next day at dawn when Second Sister was brought over in a white sedan-chair, all the incense, candles and sacrificial paper as well as fine bedding, wine and food were ready.
Presently Jia Lian, dressed in mourning, arrived in a small sedan-chair, after which they bowed to Heaven and Earth and burned sacrificial paper.
And old Mrs. You was most gratified to see Second Sisters new finery, so unlike the trinkets and clothes she had worn at home.
The bride was helped into the bridal chamber, where that night she and Jia Lian enjoyed the transports of love.
Jia Lian, more enamoured than ever of his new bride, did all in his power to please her in every way.
He forbade Bao Er and the other servants to refer to her as Second Mistress.
They must all call her the mistress just as he did, as if Xifeng had been blotted out of existence.
Whenever he went home he merely claimed to have been detained by business in the East Mansion and Xifeng, knowing how close he and Jia Zhen were, thought it natural for them to talk things over together and never suspected the truth.
As for the domestics, they never interfered in affairs of this kind.
In fact, the idlers among them who made a point of learning all the gossip tried to profit by the situation, seizing this chance to make up to Jia Lian thus none of them was willing to expose him.
So Jia Lians gratitude to Jia Zhen knew no bounds.
Every month Jia Lian paid five taels of silver to defray the daily expenses of this new establishment.
In his absence, the mother and two daughters ate together if he came, husband and wife had their meal alone while old Mrs. You and Third Sister retired to their own room to eat.
Jia Lian also made over to Second Sister the savings he had put aside in the last few years, and when in bed told her freely all about Xifeng and her behaviour, promising to take her into the family as soon as Xifeng died.
This, of course, was what Second Sister hoped for.
So their household of a dozen or so people managed very comfortably.
Two months passed in a flash.
One evening when Jia Zhen came home from Iron Threshold Temple, he decided to pay a visit to the two sisters whom he had not seen for so long.
First he sent a page to find out whether Jia Lian was there, and was delighted when the boy reported that he was not.
Having dismissed his attendants except for two trusted boys to lead his horse, he went straight to the new house.
It was already lighting up time when he slipped quietly in.
The two pages tethered the horse in the stable, then went to the servants quarters to await further orders.
When Jia Zhen entered the house the lamps had just been lit.
He first met old Mrs. You and Third Sister then Second Sister came out to greet him, and he addressed her as before as Second Cousin.
They sipped tea together and chatted.
Well, how is the marriage I arranged for you?
asked Jia Zhen with a smile.
If youd missed this chance, you couldnt have found another such man, not even if youd searched with a lantern!
Your elder sister will be coming to call one of these days with presents.
Second Sister ordered wine and food to be prepared.
And as they were members of one family now they closed the door and chatted without constraint until Bao Er came in to pay his respects.
Jia Zhen told him, Its because youre an honest fellow that I sent you here to work.
In future I shall give you more important jobs.
Dont get drunk outside or make trouble, and I shall reward you well.
Your Second Master Lian is busy and there are all sorts of people about in his place, so if youre short of anything here just let me know.
After all, were cousins its not as if I were an outsider.
Yes, sir, I understand, answered Bao Er.
If I dont do my best, you can cut off my head.
Jia Zhen nodded.
I just want you to understand.
The four of them drank together until Second Sister, sizing up the situation, said to her mother, Im afraid to go out alone.
Will you come with me?
Old Mrs. You took the hint and withdrew with her, leaving only two young maids there.
Then Jia Zhen and Third Sister nestled up to each other and flirted so outrageously that the maids were shocked and slipped out, leaving them to amuse themselves however they pleased.
Jia Zhens pages were drinking in the kitchen with Bao Er, while his wife attended to the cooking, when the two maids burst in, giggling, and asked for drinks.
Why arent you waiting on them, sisters?
asked Bao Er.
Why leave your post and come here?
If they want something and nobodys at hand, theres bound to be more trouble.
You stupid, befuddled turtle!
scolded his wife.
Why not drink yourself silly and pass out?
Just keep your balls between your thighs and stretch your carcass out.
Whether they call or whether they dont, its nothing to do with you.
Ill see to all that.
Anyway no drop of rain will spatter your head.
Now Bao Er owed all his good fortune to his wife, and his recent good luck was even more thanks to her, for in this cushy job he had nothing to do but make money and get drunk, yet Jia Lian and the rest never reprimanded him.
He therefore obeyed her implicitly, as if she were his mother.
And so having drunk enough, he went to bed.
His wife kept the maids and pages company drinking, and made up to them in the hope that they would speak well of her to Jia Zhen.
But as they were enjoying themselves they heard a sudden knocking on the gate and when Bao Ers wife hurried out to open it, she saw Jia Lian dismounting from his horse.
He asked if all was well.
She quietly told him, The Elder Master is here, in the west courtyard.
When Jia Lian heard that he went to his bedroom and found Second Sister there with her mother.
At sight of him, they looked a little put out, but he pretended not to notice.
Bring some wine, quick, he ordered.
After a couple of drinks we can go to bed.
Im tired out.
Second Sister at once stepped forward with a smile to take his outer garments and offer him tea, then asked about this and that.
Jia Lian was so pleased that he itched to make love to her.
Soon Bao Frs wife brought in wine which the two of them drank, while his mother-in-law went back to her room, sending one of the young maids to wait on them.
When Jia Lians trusted page Longer went to stable the horse he discovered another there and, looking closely, recognized it as Jia Zhens.
Understanding the situation, he too went to the kitchen where he found Xier and Shouer sitting drinking.
At sight of him, they exchanged knowing glances.
Youve come just at the right time, they chortled.
We couldnt overtake the masters horse, and as we were afraid of being caught out after curfew, we come here to spend the night.
Longer chuckled, Well, theres plenty of room on the kang, just lie down as you like.
Second Master sent me to bring the monthly allowance to the mistress, so I shant be going back either.
Weve drunk too much, said Xier.
You must have a cup now.
But as Longer sat down and raised his cup, they heard a sudden commotion in the stable where the two horses, unwilling to be tethered together, had started kicking each other.
Longer hastily put down his cup and rushed out to soothe them, coming back after he had managed to tie Jia Lians horse up elsewhere.
You three stay here, Bao Ers wife told them.
Theres tea ready made for you.
I must leave you now.
With that she left, closing the door behind her.
Xier after a few cups was already glassy-eyed.
By the time Longer and Shouer had locked the door they saw that he had passed out on the kang.
They gave him a shove.
Get up and move over, good brother, they urged.
If you hog all the space, where are we to sleep?
Must play fair tonight, each get a good fuck, Xier mumbled.
Anyone who poses as proper Ill fuck his mother.
The other two seeing that he was drunk ignored him, simply putting out the light, then lying down to sleep as best they could.
The commotion made by the horses had alarmed Second Sister, who tried to distract Jia Lian with conversation.
After a few cups, feeling randy, he ordered the maids to clear away the wine and dishes, then closed the door to undress.
Second Sister was wearing nothing but a scarlet jacket.
With her hair hanging loose, her cheeks flushed, she looked even lovelier than in the daytime.
Throwing his arms around her, Jia Lian declared, Everyone calls that shrew of mine good-looking, but to me she isnt fit even to pick up your shoes.
I may have good looks but Ive got a bad name, she answered.
So it seems not to be good-looking would be better.
Why do you say that?
he asked.
I dont understand.
You all think me silly, she told him, shedding tears.
But I have my wits about me.
Now Ive been your wife for two months, and already in that short time Ive learned that youre no fool either.
Ill be yours dead or alive.
Being married to you, Ill depend on you all my life, so of course I wont keep any secrets from you.
Im provided for, but what about my sister?
Seems to me things cant go on the way they are now.
We must think of some long-term plan.
Dont worry, chuckled Jia Lian.
Im not the jealous type.
I know all that happened in the past, you dont have to be afraid.
As your brother-in-law is my cousin, you naturally dont like to broach the subject.
It would be better for me to make the proposal.
So he went to the west courtyard and saw through the window that the room was brightly lit and Jia Zhen and Third Sister were drinking and enjoying themselves inside, Jia Lian opened the door and went in.
So youre here, sir, he said with a smile.
Ive come to pay my respects .
Jia Zhen, too embarrassed to speak, simply stood up and waved him to a seat.
Jia Lian laughed.
Why look so worried?
As cousins weve always been on the closest terms.
I cant thank you enough for all youve done for me.
If you take offence now, I shall be most upset.
Please behave just as you did before.
Otherwise I shall never dare come here again, not even if it means having no son.
He made as if to kneel down.
Jia Zhen hastily raised him.
Ill do whatever you say, cousin, he assured him.
Then Jia Lian called for wine, saying, Ill have a couple of drinks with Elder Cousin.
Taking Third Sister by the hand he added, Come and drink a cup with me too.
Jia Zhen laughed.
What a character you are!
I shall have to empty this cup.
And he tossed it off.
Third Sister jumped on to the kang then and pointed at Jia Lian.
Dont try to get round me with your glib tongue!
she cried.
Wed better keep clear of each other.
Ive seen plenty of shadow-plays in my time anyway dont tear the screen to show whats behind the scenes.
You must be befuddled if you think we dont know what goes on in your house.
Now after spending a bit of your stinking money, you two figure you can amuse yourselves with us as if we were prostitutes!
Well, youre out in your calculations.
I know your wifes such a termagant that you tricked my sister into coming here to be your second wife but you cant beat a stolen gong.
And Ive a good mind to call on this Madam Xifeng, to see what sort of prodigy she is.
If everyone treats us right we can all live at peace.
But if anyone takes the least guts, then fighting it out with that shrew.
If I dont, Im not Third Mistress You!
Whos afraid of drinking?
Lets go ahead and drink.
She picked up the wine-pot to fill a cup and drank half of this herself, then throwing one arm round Jia Lians neck started pouring the rest down his throat.
Ive already drunk with your cousin, she said.
Now let us play at being sweethearts.
This gave Jia Lian such a scare that he sobered up.
Jia Zhen, for his part, had never dreamed that Third Sister could act so brazenly.
The two cousins, for all their experience of loose women, now found themselves struck dumb by this chit of a girl.
Then Third Sister cried out, Ask my sister in!
If you want fun, lets all four of us have fun together.
As the saying goes, Perks should be kept inside the family.
Youre cousins, were sisters none of us are outsiders come on!
Second Sister who had joined them began to feel embarrassed, and Jia Zhen wanted to sneak away, but Third Sister would not let him.
By now Jia Zhen regretted having come.
He had had no idea that Third Sister would behave like this, making it impossible for him and Jia Lian to have their way with her.
Now Third Sister wound her hair in a loose knot, her scarlet jacket, half unbuttoned, disclosing her leek- green bodice and snow-white skin.
Below she was wearing green trousers and red slippers, and she now kicked her dainty feet against each other, now stretched them out side by side never still for a moment while her pendant eardrops swung this way and that.
Under the lamplight her willowy eyebrows curved enticingly, her fragrant lips glowed red as cinnabar, and her eyes, bright as autumn pools, sparkled even more seductively after drinking.
To Jia Zhen and Jia Lian it seemed that not only did she surpass her elder sister but that none of the girls they had ever seen, whether high or low, noble or humble, had possessed such bewitching charm.
Both were too dazed and too intoxicated even to lift a finger.
Her wanton coquetting had deprived them of speech.
Gesticulating and making eyes at them, Third Sister You had not put herself out to excite them, yet already the two men were at a loss to know which way to look, and had not so much as a word to say for themselves, so befuddled were they both by wine and lust.
Holding forth loudly and freely, she heaped abuse on them, taunting and teasing them just as she pleased, as if they were prostitutes called in by her instead of men who had wanted to seduce her.
Finally, sated with wine, having worked off her high spirits she drove them out, closed the door behind them, and retired to bed.
After this, whenever the maids were remiss in any way, Third Sister would loose a flood of abuse against Jia Zhen, Jia Lian and Jia Rong, accusing them of cheating a widow and her two fatherless daughters.
Thereafter, Jia Zhen hardly dared to come back unless Third Sister happened to be in the mood to send a page boy secretly to fetch him.
And when he arrived he had to let her have her way.
Third Sister was in fact a born eccentric.
Being good-looking and romantic, she liked to dress strikingly and behave more lasciviously and seductively than all other girls to infatuate men until they were fairly drooling, unable either to approach her or stay away.
She delighted in keeping them on a string like this.
Her mother and sister tried in vain to dissuade her.
How silly you are, sister, she would retort.
Why let those two reincarnated apes defile our precious bodies?
Why act so helpless?
Besides, that wife of his is a real terror.
As long as this is kept from her, were all right.
If she comes to hear of it one day, she wont take it lying down and theres bound to be a big row.
Who knows which of you will survive?
If I dont have some fun now treating them like dirt, by the time this breaks itll be too late to regret it Ill be left with nothing then but a bad name.
They realized then it was no use trying to persuade her, and gave up.
And now Third Sister started demanding the best of everything whether food or clothing.
When silver trinkets were made for her she wanted gold as well when pearls were given her she asked for gems if a fat goose was served her she demanded duck, and unless humoured would overturn the table.
If her clothes were not just as she wanted, regardless of whether they were silk or satin, new or old, she would cut them up, swearing as she tore them to shreds.
So not for a day did Jia Zhen have any satisfaction.
Instead, he squandered large sums of money for nothing.
Jia Lian when he went there just stayed in Second Sisters rooms, and he was beginning to regret this set-up.
But Second Sister had an affectionate disposition.
To her, Jia Lian was her lord and master for life, she doted on him.
As regards gentleness and obedience, she was ten times better than Xifeng, for she would consult him on everything and never dared make any decisions herself or trust to her own better judgement.
As regards her looks, conversation and behaviour, she was superior too.
Yet although she had now reformed, because of her previous slip-ups she had been labelled a wanton, and so her other good qualities counted for nothing.
However, Jia Lian said, Whos perfect?
If you recognize your mistakes and correct them, thats all right.
Thus he never mentioned her loose living in the past, content to dwell on her present goodness.
And he stuck to her like glue, like a fish to water, vowing from his heart to be true to her his whole life long, having lost all interest in Xifeng and Pinger.
When they shared the same pillow and quilt, Second Sister often urged him, Why not talk it over with your cousin Zhen, and choose some man you know to marry my sister?
Its no good keeping her here indefinitely, because sooner or later theres bound to be trouble, and then what shall we do?
I did mention this to him the other day, said Jia Lian.
But he cant bear the idea of giving her up.
I pointed out, Whats the good of fat mutton if its too hot to eat?
The rose is lovely but prickly.
How can we control her?
Wed better find someone and marry her off.
He just hemmed and hawed, then changed the subject.
So what do you expect me to do?
Dont worry, said Second Sister.
Tomorrow well first tackle my sister.
If shes willing, well let her go on making rows until he has no choice but to marry her off.
Thats the idea, agreed Jia Lian.
The next day Second Sister prepared a feast and Jia Lian stayed in.
At noon, they invited Third Sister and her mother over and made them take the seats of honour.
Third Sister guessed their intention, and when their cups had been filled three times, without waiting for her sister to speak she said tearfully You must have invited me today, sister, for some important reason.
Im no fool, and theres no need to harp on my shameful conduct in the past.
Im aware of it its no use talking about it.
Youve found yourself a good niche now, and so has mother, and its only right and proper that I should look for a home of my own too.
But marriage is a serious business its for life, not a joking matter.
Ive had a change of heart and mean to turn over a new leaf, but I must find someone congenial before Ill marry.
If your choice, no matter how rich, talented and handsome, wasnt a man after my own heart then my whole life would be wasted.
Thats no problem, said Jia Lian.
You can make your own choice.
And well provide the whole dowry, so that mother neednt worry about that either.
Sister knows who I mean, sobbed Third Sister.
I dont have to name him.
Who is he?
Jia Lian asked Second Sister, but she could not think who it could be.
While the others were wondering, Jia Lian, sure that he had guessed, clapped his hands.
I know who it is!
Hes certainly not bad.
Youve made a good choice.
Who is it?
asked Second Sister.
It must be Baoyu, he chuckled.
No one else would do for her.
Second Sister and old Mrs. You thought he had guessed right, but Third Sister spat in disgust.
If there were ten of us sisters, would we all have to marry your brothers and cousins?
she asked.
Are there no men outside your family?
This puzzled them all.
Who else could it be?
They wondered.
Forget about the present, sister, said Third Sister.
Just think back five years and youll know.
As they were talking, Jia Lians trusted page Xinger came in to report, The old master wants you to go over at once, sir.
I told him youd gone to see your uncle, then came straight to fetch you.
Did they ask about me at home yesterday?
demanded Jia Lian hastily.
I told Madam that you were at the family temple making plans for the hundredth day sacrifice with Lord Zhen, so you probably couldnt come home.
Jia Lian promptly called for his horse and rode off, accompanied by Longer, leaving Xinger behind to attend to other things.
Second Sister ordered two dishes and made him drink a goblet of wine as he squatted by the kang while she questioned him about the Jia family.
How old was Madam Lian?
Was she really a terror?
How old were the old lady and Lady Wang?
How many girls were there in the household?
Beaming as he ate and drank beside the kang, Xinger regaled old Mrs. You and her daughters with a detailed account of the Rong Mansion.
I keep watch at the inner gate, he said.
We have two shifts, four men in each, eight altogether.
Some of us are trusted by Madam, some by the master.
Were careful not to annoy her men, but theyre always provoking us.
You ask about our mistress.
Well, I shouldnt really be telling you this, madam, but shes crafty and vicious with a sharp, quick tongue.
Second Master is all right, but hes under her thumb.
Still Miss Pinger in their apartments is good-natured even though shes on Madam Lians side, behind her back she often does people good turns.
If we do anything wrong, Madam wont let us off but if we beg Pinger for help she smoothes things over.
Theres no one now in the whole household, barring Their Ladyships, who doesnt hate her.
We just make a show of liking her out of fear.
Thats because she looks down on everyone and just sucks up to the old lady and mistress.
Whatever she says goes, and no one dares stop her.
She tries to save up piles of silver so that Their Ladyships will praise her for being a good manager but of course we servants are the ones to suffer, while she takes all the credit.
If anything good happens, she rushes to take the credit before anyone else can report it.
If anything bad happens, or if she herself makes some mistake, she ducks and shifts the blame on to other people, stirring up more trouble too on the side.
Now even her own mother-in-law, the Elder Mistress, cant stand her, calling her a fair-weather sparrow, or a black hen that neglects her own nest but keeps butting in everywhere else.
If not for the old ladys backing, her mother-in-law would have fetched her back long ago.
Second Sister smiled.
The way youre talking behind her back makes me wonder what youll say about me in future.
As Im lower in status you can lay it on even thicker!
Xinger hastily fell on his knees.
If I do, may a thunderbolt strike me dead!
he swore.
If wed had the luck from the start to have a mistress like you, we wouldnt have had to put up with so many beatings and cursings or to live in fear and trembling all the time.
Why, all our masters servants keep praising you, behind your back as well, for your goodness and kindness to us.
Weve been talking of asking our master to let us come here to wait on you, madam.
You monkey!
she laughed.
Get up quickly.
I was only joking you neednt be afraid.
Why should you all come here?
Ive been meaning, actually, to call on your mistress.
Xinger threw up his hands in dismay.
On no account do that, madam.
Take my word for it, it will be best for you never to meet her all your life.
Shell give you sweet talk when theres hatred in her heart, shes so double-faced and tricky.
All the time shes smiling she tries to trip you up, making a show of great warmth while she stabs you in the back.
Thats the way she is.
Im afraid not even Third Aunt could outtalk her, so how could a gentle, kindly lady like you be a match for her?
If I treat her politely what can she do to me?
Its not that Im talking wildly because Im drinking.
Even if you treated her with respect, once she saw you were better looking and more popular with people, how could she let you off?
If other women are jealous, shes a hundred times so.
If the master happens to cast a second glance at any maid, shes liable to make a row then and there.
Though Miss Pingers part of their household, and the master may be allowed to sleep with her once a year, or once in two years, she keeps nagging until Pinger loses her temper and makes a scene.
I didnt ask to be his concubine, she says.
When I was unwilling you called me disobedient.
You forced me into it, yet now you treat me like this!
Then, generally, she pipes down and even asks Miss Pingers pardon.
There youre lying, said Second Sister with a laugh.
How could a hellion like that be afraid of a concubine?
As the proverb says, he retorted, everyone has to listen to reason.
Miss Pinger has been her maid since she was a girl, being one of the four she brought here at the time of her marriage.
The rest got married or died, leaving only this favourite maid, so she decided to make her a concubine.
That was so as to show how broad-minded she was and also to stop the master from chasing after loose women outside.
Theres another reason too.
Its a rule in our family that when the young gentlemen reach teenage, before theyre married, two girls are always assigned to wait on them.
Second Master had two, but within half a year of her arrival she picked fault with them and sent them both packing.
Although no one could very well say anything, she knew it didnt look good, so she forced Pinger to become his concubine.
Pingers really a good sort.
Instead of holding this against her or stirring up trouble between husband and wife, shes completely loyal to her mistress thats why shes kept on.
So thats the way it is, remarked Second Sister.
But I hear youve another mistress whos a widow, and several young ladies too.
Why do they put up with her if shes such a shrew?
Xinger clapped his hands.
You dont understand, I see.
That widow, Madam Zhu, is such a kindly soul that shes nicknamed Great Bodhisattva.
Besides, the rule in our family is so strict that widows never attend to affairs all thats expected of them is to live quietly and chastely.
But as there happen to be so many young ladies, theyve been put in her charge and its her job to superintend their studies and teach them needlework and moral principles.
She doesnt have to bother about anything else.
Its only because of Madam Lians recent illness and because theres so much to be done that Madam Zhus helping out for a few days.
Still, there isnt much she can do, she simply sticks to the old ways, not throwing her weight about like Madam Lian to show how smart she is.
As for our eldest young lady, it goes without saying, if she wasnt so fine in every way she wouldnt have been blessed with her present good fortune.
Our second young lady, the one we call Dumbbell, wont let out a peep even if shes pricked with a needle.
The third has the nickname Rose.
Whys that?
asked the two You sisters.
Xinger chuckled.
Everyone loves roses, theyre so red and fragrant.
But theyre prickly too.
And shes wonderfully clever.
The pity is shes not Lady Wangs own child but a phoenix from a crows nest.
The fourth, whos still young, is actually Lord Zhens younger sister but because she lost her mother when she was a child, the old lady made Lady Wang adopt her and bring her up and she never bothers about family affairs either.
Then, you may not know, madam, apart from our own young ladies we have two others, the likes of whom are seldom seen on earth or in heaven.
Ones Lin Daiyu her mother was the old ladys daughter.
In looks and figure shes just as lovely as Third Aunt, with a bellyful of book learning besides but shes always falling ill.
Even in hot weather like this she wears lined clothes, and a puff of wind can blow her over.
Being a disrespectful lot, behind her back we all call her the Sick Beauty.
Then theres Aunt Xues daughter Baochai, with a skin so white she looks as if made of snow.
Whenever we catch a glimpse of them coming out of the gate or getting into a carriage, or in the courtyard, we all seem to be possessed by ghosts or gods!
The sight of either of them takes our breath away.
Second Sister laughed.
A big family like yours has strict rules.
Even though you were taken into service there as children, when you happen to meet any of the young ladies you ought to make yourselves scarce.
Xinger brushed this aside.
Its not that.
If you talk about the proper etiquette, it goes without saying we should keep out of the way.
But even when we do we still hold our breath because, if we let out a gasp, it might blow Miss Lin over or being warm, might melt Miss Xue.
Everybody in the room burst out laughing at this.
To know what followed read the next chapter.
Chapter 66 A Girl in Love Is Rejected and Kills Herself A Cold-Hearted Man Repents and Thins to Religion Bao Ers wife slapped Xinger playfully.
How you do twist the truth and exaggerate!
she teased.
The senseless way you talk sounds as if you were Baoyus servant, not Second Masters.
Before Second Sister could ask any other questions, Third Sister put in, By the way, what does he do, that Baoyu of yours, apart from studying?
Dont ask, aunt, Xinger chuckled.
1ff tell you, you wont believe me.
Big as he is, hes unique in never having had any proper schooling.
All earlier generations of our family right down to Second Master studied hard for years hes the only one who wont study, and hes the old ladys pet.
At first his father tried to discipline him, but hes long since given that up.
Baoyu carries on the whole time like a lunatic, talking in a way that no one understands, and what he gets up to goodness only knows.
Hes handsome and is taken for an intelligent boy, but for all he looks so smart hes actually muddle-headed, with nothing to say for himself in company.
The only good thing about him is that though hes never been to a proper school hes managed to learn to read.
He never studies books or practises military arts and he doesnt like meeting strangers, instead he just loves to fool about with the maids.
He has no sense of whats fitting either.
When he sees us, if hes in the mood hell play around with us quite forgetting his station if hes not in the mood hell go off by himself, ignoring everyone else.
If were sitting or lying about when he turns up, and we pay no attention to him, he never ticks us off.
So nobodys afraid of him we know we can behave just as we please.
When your masters lenient you run him down if he were strict youd complain, said Third Sister with a smile.
That shows what a troublesome lot you are.
He made a good impression on us, remarked Second Sister.
We didnt know he was like this.
What a pity when hes such a handsome boy.
Dont believe the nonsense he talks, sister, said Third Sister.
Weve met Baoyu several times.
The way he behaves and speaks does seem rather effeminate, but thats because he spends all his time in the inner apartments.
You cant call him muddle-headed.
Remember when we were in mourning, that day the monks filed round the coffin?
We girls were all standing there and he stepped in front of us, standing in our way.
People said he had no manners and should know better but later didnt he tell us in confidence, You know, sisters, its not that I had no sense of respect, but those monks are so dirty I was afraid youd find their stench overpowering.
Then he was drinking tea, and you wanted some too.
When that old woman took his bowl to pour some for you, he said at once, Ive dirtied that bowl you must wash it first.
From these two incidents, viewed dispassionately, I saw how obliging he is towards us girls he knows how to make himself agreeable to us.
It just doesnt seem right to outsiders thats why they cant understand him.
It sounds as if the two of you are already of one mind, Second Sister chuckled.
How would it be if we were to betroth you to him?
Inhibited by Xingers presence, Third Sister just lowered her head and went on cracking melon-seeds.
As far as looks and behaviour go, theyd make a fine couple, chortled Xinger.
Only hes already made his choice, although it hasnt yet been announced.
Its bound to be Miss Lin.
Nothing has been done so far, as shes so delicate and theyre both still young but in another two or three years, as soon as the old lady says the word it will certainly be settled.
As they were chatting, Longer came back to report, The old master has some business, something extremely important and confidential, that hes sending Second Master to Pinganzhou to attend to.
Hes to set out in a few days and the whole trip there and back will take more than a fortnight.
So he cant come back today.
He hopes the old mistress and Second Aunt will see to that matter right away, so that he can make the final decision when he comes tomorrow.
This said, he went off with Xinger.
Second Sister ordered the gate to be closed and they turned in early, but she spent most of the night questioning her sister.
The next day it was after noon before Jia Lian arrived.
Why be in such a hurry to come when youve other important business?
Second Sister asked him.
You mustnt delay your journey on my account.
Its not all that important, he told her.
The nuisance is Ive got to make a long trip, starting early next month, and I shant be back for a fortnight.
Well, just go with an easy mind.
You neednt worry about anything here.
My sisters not the type that keeps changing her mind.
She says shes going to turn over a new leaf, and shell be as good as her word.
Shes already made her choice of a man.
All you need do is to fall in with her wishes.
Who is he?
asked Jia Lian.
Hes not here now, and theres no knowing when hell come back.
But shes made an intelligent choice.
If he stays away for a year, shell wait for a year, she says.
If he doesnt return for ten years, shell wait for ten years.
If hes dead and never comes back, shell gladly shave off her hair and become a nun, fasting and chanting sutras all her life.
Who can the fellow be that has won her heart so completely?
Its a long story, said Second Sister with a smile.
Five years ago, when it was our grandmothers birthday, my mother took us there to offer congratulations.
Theyd invited a troupe of amateur actors, among them a certain Liu Xianglian who liked to play the young heros part in operas.
She took such a fancy to him, she now declares hes the only man for her.
Last year we heard that hed got into trouble and run away.
We dont know whether he has ever come back.
Well, I never!
exclaimed Jia Lian.
So thats who it is.
I was wondering what sort of fellow he could be.
Yes, shes made a good choice.
But you know this Second Master Liu, for all hes so handsome, is cold and stand-offish.
He has no time for most people but happens to get on splendidly with Baoyu.
Last year after he beat up that fool Xue Pan he left, feeling too embarrassed to see us, and we dont know where hes gone.
Some people say hes returned.
I suppose we can ask Baoyus pages to find out.
If he hasnt come back and is still drifting about, Heaven knows how many years he may stay away.
Your sister may wait in vain.
No, my sisters always as good as her word, she assured him.
Just let her have her way.
At this point Third Sister joined them.
Believe me, brother-in-law, Im not one of those who dont say what they think, she declared.
I mean what I say.
If Mr. Liu comes Ill marry him.
Until then Ill fast, chant sutras and look after my mother while waiting for him to come and marry me, even if I have to wait a hundred years.
If he never comes, Ill go and become a nun.
Drawing a jade pin from her hair she broke it in two, exclaiming, If Ive said a single word that isnt true, may I end up like this pin!
This said, she went back to her room.
And after that she was, indeed, most correct in her speech and behaviour.
There was nothing Jia Lian could do.
Having discussed some family business with Second Sister, he went home to tell Xifeng about his trip, then sent to ask Mingyan whether Liu Xianglian had returned or not.
I dont know, said Mingyan.
Probably not.
Otherwise I would have heard.
And Lius neighbours when questioned said he had never come back.
So Jia Lian had to pass on this information to Second Sister.
As the time for his departure approached he announced that he was leaving two days early, but in fact he spent two nights in Second Sisters place, starting his journey secretly from there.
He observed that Third Sisters behaviour had indeed changed out of all recognition, and as Second Sister was managing the house diligently and prudently he had no need to worry.
He left the city early in the morning and took the highway to Pinganzhou.
He travelled all day, stopping only to refresh himself when he was hungry or thirsty, staying in inns at night, and he had been three days on the way when a caravan of pack-horses came towards him escorted by a dozen or so men on horseback.
As they drew near he saw to his astonishment that among them were Xue Pan and Liu Xianglian.
At once he spurred his horse forward to meet them, and after exchanging the usual courtesies they chose an inn in which to rest and chat.
Jia Lian said, After the two of you fell out we were very eager to patch it up between you, but Brother Liu had vanished without a trace.
How come youre together today?
Wonders never cease, said Xue Pan.
I and my assistants bought some goods and started back to the capital this spring.
All went well till the other day when we reached Pinganzhou and a band of brigands seized everything we had.
Then along came Brother Liu in the nick of time to drive the brigands away, rescue our goods and save our lives into the bargain.
When he wouldnt accept anything for his help, we became sworn brothers and have been travelling together.
From now on we shall be like real blood-brothers.
But we shall part company at the crossroad in front, as he has to go two hundred ii farther south to visit an aunt of his.
I shall go to the capital first to finish my business, then find a house for him and a suitable wife, so that we can all settle down there.
If thats the case, exclaimed Jia Lian, Weve been worrying needlessly for several days.
As Xue Pan had spoken of finding a wife for Xianglian, he hastened to continue, Ive got the very bride for him, a splendid match for Brother Liu.
He went on to explain how he had married Second Sister You and now wanted to find a husband for her younger sister, omitting only to add that Liu was Third Sisters own choice.
He then cautioned Xue Pan, Mind you dont tell the family.
Just wait until she has a son, then of course theyll have to know.
Xue Pan was delighted.
You should have done that long ago, he said.
It serves Cousin Xifeng right.
Youre talking nonsense again, put in Xianglian with a smile.
Youd better shut up.
In that case, said Xue Pan, changing the subject, we must fix up this match.
Its been my intention all along, Xianglian told them, to marry only an outstanding beauty.
But as this proposal comes from my honourable elder brothers, I shant insist on that.
Ill agree to whatever you suggest.
Words dont carry conviction, Jia Lian rejoined.
But once you see her, Brother Liu, youll realize that this sister-in-law of mine is a matchless beauty.
Xianglian was overjoyed by this assurance.
If thats so, he said, When Ive called on my aunt, in less than a fortnight Ill come to the capital and we can settle everything then.
Hows that?
Were both men of our word, replied Jia Lian.
But youre such a rolling stone, always on the move, I dont like leaving it undecided.
If you drift away now and dont come back, whats to become of her?
Youd better let me have some betrothal token.
A true man never goes back on his word.
Im not rich and Im in the middle of a journey, so where would I get a betrothal token?
Ive something suitable, Xue Pan cut in.
Just take it, Second Brother.
I dont want gold or silk, said Jia Lian.
What I have in mind is one of Brother Lius personal possessions it doesnt have to be anything valuable.
Ill just take it as a pledge.
Very well, then, agreed Xianglian.
The only things I have with me, apart from this sword which I need in self-defence, are a pair of duck and drake swords in my luggage theyre a family heirloom which I never use but always keep with me.
You can take them as a pledge.
However much of a wanderer I am, Id never give up these swords.
After that they drank a few more cups, then mounted their horses, took their leave of each other and went their different ways.
Truly -1134 Generals, not dismounting from their horses, Gallop off to their destinations.
After Jia Lian reached Pinganzhou he called on the governor to settle his business, and was told to come back again before the tenth month.
The very next day he hurriedly started back, and as soon as he got home went to see Second Sister.
Since his departure Second Sister had been running her household most prudently, staying in every day behind closed doors and taking no interest in outside affairs.
And Third Sister had proved her iron resolution apart from waiting on her mother and sister she had kept to herself, doing her share of work every day and sleeping alone at night on her lonely pillow.
Although unaccustomed to such a solitary life she avoided all company, simply longing for Liu Xianglians early return, so that the main affair of her life could be settled.
When Jia Lian saw how things were, he was very pleased with Second Sisters virtuous conduct.
After the usual civilities had been exchanged, he described his encounter with Liu Xianglian on the road and taking out the pair of swords passed them to Third Sister.
She looked at the dragon and serpent designs on the sheath which was studded with bright pearls and jewels, then drew out the two swords, identical in size, one engraved with the word duck, the other drake.
The blades had the cold gleam of two autumn streams.
Overjoyed, she hastily took them to her chamber to hang them on the wall over her bed.
Every day she would feast her eyes on them, happy that her future was provided for.
After Jia Lian had spent two days there, he went to report on his mission to his father, then returned home to see his family.
By now Xifeng was well enough to attend to affairs and get about again.
When Jia Lian told Jia Zhen about Third Sisters engagement his cousin showed little interest, as he had recently found himself a new mistress and given up calling on the You sisters.
He was willing to let Jia Lian do as he pleased.
But suspecting that the latter might be unable to defray all the expenses, he gave him thirty taels of silver which Jia Lian passed on to Second Sister to prepare her sisters trousseau.
Liu Xianglian did not come to the capital till the eighth month.
When he called on Aunt Xue and Xue Ke he learned that Xue Pan, being unaccustomed to the rigours of travel and a different climate, had fallen ill as soon as he arrived home and was still being treated by doctors.
Hearing of Xianglians arrival, he invited him into his bedroom.
Full of gratitude for the good turn Xianglian had done them, Aunt Xue let bygones be bygones, both she and her son thanking him most profusely.
They went on to speak of the wedding, all the preparations for which were complete except for the choice of an auspicious day.
Xianglian, in turn, was loud in his thanks.
The next day he called on Baoyu, and meeting again they felt so at home with each other that Xianglian asked for more details about Jia Lians secret marriage to a second wife.
I only heard about it from Mingyan and the others, Baoyu told him.
And it wasnt my business to interfere.
I also heard from Mingyan that Cousin Lian was very anxious to find you I dont know what for.
Xianglian explained all that had happened on the road.
Congratulations!
cried Baoyu.
Youd be hard put to it to find a lovelier girl.
Shes really ravishing, just the right match for you.
If shes so lovely she ought to have lots of suitors why should he single me out?
Its not as if the two of us were close friends or he has any special concern for me.
In our brief meeting on the road he kept pressing me to agree to this engagement.
Why should the girls family be in such a hurry?
I couldnt help having misgivings, and soon started regretting having given him my swords as a pledge.
Thats why I thought of asking you just whats behind this.
Youre a smart fellow, answered Baoyu.
Once youve given your pledge how can you start having second thoughts?
You always said you wanted a ravishing beauty, and now youve got one.
Isnt that good enough?
Why be so suspicious?
If you didnt know about Jia Lians secret marriage, how do you know that shes so beautiful?
Shes one of the two daughters of Madam Yous step-mother, old Mrs. You, by her first marriage.
I saw a lot of them for a couple of months, so of course I know.
She and her sister are really a pair of beauties.
Xianglian stamped his foot.
Thats no good then!
I cant go through with it.
The only clean things in that East Mansion of yours are those two stone lions at the gate.
Even the cats and dogs there are unclean.
I dont want to be a cuckold and take someone elses leavings.
Baoyu blushed.
And Xianglian, regretting his tactlessness, made haste to bow.
I deserve death for talking such nonsense.
But do at any rate tell me what her characters like.
If you know so much already, why ask me?
I may not be clean myself either.
I forgot myself just now, said Xianglian with a smile.
Please dont make such an issue of it.
Why mention it again?
retorted Baoyu.
This makes it seem that you take it seriously.
Xianglian took his leave then with a bow and left.
He thought of going to see Xue Pan, but reflected that as the latter was unwell and so irascible at the best of times he had better go and get his pledge back instead.
This decision reached, he went to find Jia Lian.
Jia Lian was in the new house.
When he heard that Xianglian had come he was overjoyed and hurried out to welcome him, then ushered him into the inner room and introduced him to old Mrs. You.
To his astonishment, instead of kneeling to her as his future mother-in-law, Xianglian simply bowed and addressed her as aunt, referring to himself as your nephew.
And as they were sipping tea he said, During my journey, as it happened, I was overhasty, not knowing that my aunt had arranged a match for me in the fourth month, making it impossible for me to retract.
It wouldnt be right would it, brother, for me to accept your proposal and refuse my aunts.
If Id given the usual gifts of money and silk, I wouldnt venture to ask to have them back but those swords were left me by my grandfather, so I must beg you to return them.
Jia Lian was very put out when he heard this.
A pledge is a pledge, he argued.
And a pledge is given to stop a man from going back on his word.
Can you cancel an engagement so casually?
Pray reconsider the matter.
In spite of what you say, replied Xianglian, Im willing to accept any penalty, but on this matter I definitely cannot obey your order.
Jia Lian was about to reply when Xianglian stood up.
Lets discuss this outside, he proposed.
Its not convenient her.
Third Sister had heard all this clearly from her room.
She had been waiting and waiting for Liu Xianglians arrival, but now he had suddenly broken the engagement.
It was clear to her that he must have heard some gossip in the Jia mansions which led him to believe her a shameless wanton, not fit to be his wife.
If she let the two men go out now to discuss it, she foresaw that Jia Lian would fail to win him round and she would be utterly humiliated.
So as soon as Jia Lian agreed to his proposal she took down the swords, concealing the duck behind her elbow, and went out to intercept them.
Theres no need for you to go out to discuss this further.
she told them.
Heres your pledge, Im returning it.
Her tears falling like rain, with her left hand she passed the sheath with one sword in it to Xianglian, and with her right cut her throat with the other blade.
Alas!
-740 The jade hill crumbles, never to rise again Peach-blossom, trampled, stains the ground with red.
Her fragrant spirit is lost in the infinite None knows whither it has fled.
All present were consternated and tried in vain to revive her.
Old Mrs. You sobbing with horror cursed Xianglian, while Jia Lian seized hold of him, calling servants to tie him up and drag him to court.
Second Sister dried her tears then to urge her husband, Let him be!
He didnt threaten her, she took her own life.
So what use would it be to take him to court?
That would only cause a worse scandal.
Youd better let him go, to save further trouble.
Then Jia Lian, not knowing what else to do, let go of Xianglian and told him to get out.
However, he did not move but burst into tears.
I never knew this intended wife of mine was so chaste, such a magnificent girl.
he exclaimed.
Prostrating himself over her corpse he gave way to a storm of weeping.
And when a coffin was brought and her body laid in it, he clasped it and lamented bitterly before finally leaving them.
Once outside the gate he did not know where to go, dazed and sunk in gloom as he recalled what had just happened.
So she was so lovely and chaste, he reflected, torn by remorse.
He wandered aimlessly on until one of Xue Pans pages appeared and asked him to go back.
The boy took him to a magnificent bridal chamber.
He heard the tinkling of pendants, and in came Third Sister, in one hand the duck and drake swords, in the other a book.
With tears she told him Your devoted handmaid waited five years for you, my lord, not knowing you would prove so cold-hearted.
I have paid with my life now for my infatuation.
Today, at the order of the goddess of Disenchantment, I am going to the Illusory Land of the Great Void to register all the amorous spirits in this case.
But I couldnt bear to go away without bidding you farewell, for from this day on we shall never meet again.
This said, she turned to leave.
Xianglian could not bear to let her go and quickly stepped forward to stop her and question her.
We came from the Heaven of Love and we must return there from the Earth of Love, she told him.
I was deluded by love in my last life, but as I have repented of it and awakened, from now on I shall have nothing to do with you, sir.
As her voice died away, a fragrant wind sprang up and she vanished into thin air.
Xianglian woke with a start, wondering if he had been dreaming.
When he opened his eyes and looked round, there was no sign of the Xues page boy or of the bridal chamber.
He was in a tumble-down temple, and beside him a lame Taoist priest was sitting catching lice.
Xianglian rose to his feet, then bowed to the ground.
Where are we, holy master?
he asked the priest.
And what is your immortal name?
The priest chuckled, I myself dont know where we are or who I am.
Im simply putting up here for the time being.
At this Liu Xianglian shuddered with cold, as if the marrow of his bones had frozen.
He drew the drake sword and with one stroke cut off his hair, then went away with the priest, no one knows where.
To know what became of him, read the next chapter.
Chapter 67 A Gift of Local Products Makes Daiyu Homesick Xifeng Questions a Page Boy and Hatches a Plot After Third Sisters suicide, it goes without saying, old Mrs. You, Second Sister and Jia Lian were overcome with grief, as were Jia Zhen, his wife and Jia Rong as soon as they learned of it.
They at once prepared to bury her in style.
As for Liu Xianglian, Third Sisters death had filled him with remorse and inspired him with foolish passion, till a few words from the Taoist priest freed him from his delusions.
Thereupon he cut off his hair and renounced the world to go off with the priest, none knew where.
But no more of this.
Aunt Xue had been so delighted to hear of Xianglians betrothal to Third Sister that she had decided to buy and furnish a house for him, prepare the brides trousseau and then choose an auspicious day for the wedding to express her gratitude to him for saving her sons life.
Now, hearing from one of their servant boys that Third Sister had taken her own life and Xianglian had gone off with a priest, she was overwhelmed by distress and bewilderment.
And just then Baochai came over from the Garden.
Have you heard the news, child?
her mother asked.
Wasnt Third Sister You, the younger sister of your Cousin Zhens wife, engaged and a very good match it would have been too to your brothers sworn brother Liu Xianglian?
But for some unknown reason shes cut her throat and hes renounced the world.
Isnt it amazing?
A real bolt from the blue !
Baochai, however, did not take it to heart.
As the proverb says, she replied, Sudden storms spring up in nature, and the fortunes of men may change overnight.
They cant have been predestined to be husband and wife.
Youre upset, mother, because he rescued my brother, and if all had gone well between them of course it would have been only right for you to help with the wedding.
Now that one of them is dead and the others gone, it seems to me youd better let things be.
Dont grieve so much for them that you injure your health.
Now quite a times passed since brother came back from the south, and all the goods he brought ought to be disposed of.
The assistants who went with him worked hard for several months.
Why not talk it over with brother, and invite them to a meal to express our gratitude?
Otherwise they may think were lacking in manners.
In came Xue Pan then, tears still in his eyes.
As he stepped through the door he clapped his hands together.
Mother, he blurted out, have you heard about Brother Liu and Third Sister You?
I heard talk of it in the Garden, and your sister and I were speaking about it just now.
Isnt it extraordinary?
It certainly is.
Why should a smart young man like Master Liu suddenly do such a foolish thing, going off with a Taoist priest?
I suppose its because he was pre-ordained in some former existence to become a saint that he was so ready to listen to the priest.
As you were such good friends and he lived all alone here, with no parents or brothers, you ought to make a thorough search for him.
How could that lame and crazy priest go very far?
He must be hiding in one of the temples near by.
Thats exactly what I thought, replied Xue Pan.
As soon as I got this news I took my servants out to search high and low, but not a trace of him could we find.
And everyone we asked said they hadnt seen them.
I was so frantic that, before coming back, I faced northwest and burst out howling.
As he said this his eyes brimmed with tears again.
If youve made a search and failed to find him, youve done your duty as a friend, said his mother.
After all, his renouncing the world may not be a bad thing.
Youd better not worry too much.
For one thing, youve your business to attend to and then you should make preparations in good time for your own wedding.
Our familys short-handed and, as the proverb says, A slow sparrow should make an early start.
We dont want to find, when the time comes, that weve forgotten this, that and the other, so that people laugh at us.
Another thing, your sister says youve been home nearly a month now, so presumably those goods are all disposed of.
You ought to entertain the assistants who went on the trip with you to a feast, to thank them for their hard work.
Of course, theyre our employees and we pay them still, theyre our proteges too.
And, after all, they accompanied you on a journey of one or two thousand ii, working hard for four or five months and sharing your hardships and dangers on the road.
Youre quite right, mother, agreed Xue Pan.
Sister thinks of everything.
It did occur to me too, but these days Ive been so busy dispatching goods, my heads been in a whirl and the last few days Ive been rushing about arranging Brother Lius wedding not that anythings come of it and thats held up our own business.
Suppose we fix on tomorrow or the day after and send out invitations?
Just decide on any day you please, said his mother.
As she was speaking a servant came in to report, Manager Zhangs assistants have brought two cases.
They say these are things the master bought for himself, not included in the bill of goods.
They meant to bring them over earlier but couldnt get at them as they were beneath other cases.
Yesterday they finished dispatching the goods thats why theyve only sent them over today.
Meanwhile two servant-boys had brought in two big palm-fibre cases, crated with spars.
Aiya!
exclaimed Xue Pan.
How could I be so muddle-headed!
These are things I bought specially for you, mother and sister, but as I forgot to bring them home theyve had to send them.
Baochai teased, You say these were bought specially, yet you left them lying there for over a fortnight.
If they had been something not specially bought, I suppose you wouldnt have given them to us until the end of the year.
Youre altogether too casual.
I guess those brigands on the road scared the wits out of me, and they havent come back to my noddle yet, he said, raising a laugh.
Then turning to the servants, he ordered, Go and tell the messengers Ive received these cases and they can go back now.
Aunt Xue and Baochai now asked, What good things are these, so carefully packed and crated?
Xue Pan called servants to unfasten the ropes and remove the spars, then he unlocked the cases.
They saw that one was filled with silks, satins, brocades, foreign imports and articles of daily use.
The other, meant for Baochai, in addition to writing-brushes, ink-tablets, inkstones, stationery, perfume-sachets, scented beads, fans, fan-sheaths, powder, rouge and pomade, had in it all sorts of toys from Huqiu in Soochow.
Among them were figurines with movable limbs, lots for drinking-games, toy tumblers weighted with quicksilver, earthenware lanterns, whole sets of clay opera figures in blue gauze boxes, and even a clay sculpture of Xue Pan done to the life by one of the Huqiu craftsmen.
Baochai was not interested in the other things, but she picked up the figurine of Xue Pan to examine it carefully and comparing it with her brother, she burst out laughing.
She told her maids, Take this case to the Garden, so that itll be easier to distribute these presents to the different apartments there.
With that she stood up to ask leave from her mother, then went back to the Garden.
Aunt Xue, for her part, when she had unpacked her case, divided the things into different lots which she told her young maid Tongxi to take to the Lady Dowager, Lady Wang and others.
Baochai, who had followed her case back to her own rooms, looked through the things in it one by one.
Some she kept for herself the rest she divided into appropriate lots.
To some people she would just give toys to others, stationery or sachets, fans and pendants rouge and pomade.
She gave careful thought to what was a fair share for each, only making an exception in Daiyus case she was to have twice as much as anyone else.
After she had allotted all the shares, she sent Yinger with an old maid-servant to deliver them to the different apartments.
Li Wan, Baoyu and the rest, on receiving these presents, tipped the messengers and told them that they would thank Baochai when next they saw her.
Only Daiyu was grief-stricken at the sight of these toys from her home in the south which reminded her of her parents.
Gazing at them through tears she sighed I come from south of the Yangzi, but my parents are dead and Im all on my own, with no brothers so I have to put up in my grandmothers house.
My health is poor too, and though Im well looked after by my grandmother, aunt and cousins, none of the Lin family ever calls to see me or brings me local products which I could gain face by distributing as presents.
This shows how lonely it is, how utterly wretched, to have no family of ones own.
These reflections made her feel her heart would break.
Zijuan, having waited on Daiyu for so long, knew just how her mind worked and that it was the sight of these gifts from her old home in the south that had upset her, making her feel homesick.
But not daring to say so outright, she just tried to comfort her.
Youre so delicate, miss, she said, that youre always taking medicine.
These last few days youve just begun to recover your appetite and have a little more energy but youre not completely well yet.
Miss Baochais gift of these things today shows how fond she is of you.
They ought to make you happy instead of upsetting you.
Doesnt it look as if her presents, which she hoped would please you, have vexed you instead?
Wouldnt she feel bad if she knew this?
And just think, miss, Their Ladyships are doing all they can to find good doctors to diagnose your illness and prescribe medicine, so that youll be cured as soon as possible.
Youve just taken a turn for the better, but by weeping again like this arent you yourself injuring your health?
Dont you want to please the old lady?
You fell ill, didnt you, because you undermined your strength by worrying too much?
Your healths as precious as gold, miss.
Dont treat it so lightly!
As Zijuan was pleading like this with Daiyu, a young maid in the courtyard announced, Master Bao has come.
Show him in at once, called Zijuan.
Even as she was speaking Baoyu walked in, and Daiyu invited him to take a seat.
Seeing the tear-stains on her face he asked, Whos been offending you again, cousin?
Your eyes are red from weeping.
Daiyu said nothing.
Zijuan, standing to one side, jerked her chin towards the bed, and Baoyu taking the hint walked over to have a look.
When he saw all the things piled up there he knew that these were presents from Baochai.
What nice things!
he exclaimed.
Are you starting a shop?
Or why display them like this?
Still Daiyu ignored him.
Dont mention them, Second Master, said Zijuan.
They were sent by Miss Baochai, but at sight of them our young lady got upset and started weeping.
Ive been trying hard to console her, but its no use.
And shes missed a meal again.
If she wears herself out with crying so that her illness comes back, the old ladys going to give us a fearful scolding.
Its lucky youve come.
Do talk her round for us.
Baoyu was intelligent, and having always paid more attention to Daiyu than anyone else he knew just how narrow-minded and hyper-sensitive she was, how eager to outshine others in every way.
When she saw that Baochais brother had brought all these things from the south, from her old home, to give away as presents, she must have been painfully reminded of her own loss and other causes for grief.
But though he knew the real reason for her distress he refrained from speaking of it, for fear of making her feel worse.
I know why your young lady cried, he said with a smile.
Shes angry and upset because Miss Baochai didnt send her more things.
Dont worry, cousin, next year when I go south Ill bring you back two boatloads of things to stop you crying all the time.
Daiyu couldnt help chuckling at this.
But at once she protested, However little Ive seen of the world, Im not such a fool as to get provoked because a presents too little.
What do you take me for, a two-year-old?
You really have too low an opinion of other people.
I have my own reasons which you know nothing about.
With that she started shedding tears again.
Baoyu at once went to sit down on the bed beside her.
He picked up the gifts one by one to examine them.
Whats this?
he asked.
Whats it called?
Whats that cute thing made of?
And this one, whats it used for?
Look, cousin, you could put this one as an ornament on your bookcase or on your cabinet as a curio.
In the hope of distracting her he kept up this idle chatter for a while.
Seeing Baoyu clowning like this to amuse her and asking all sorts of inconsequential questions, Daiyu was mollified and cheered up a little.
Noticing this, he suggested, Dont you think we should call on Baochai to thank her?
Will you come with me?
Daiyu had not intended to make a special trip to thank Baochai that could wait until next they met.
But as Baoyus proposal was right she could hardly refuse, so she went off with him.
To return to Xue Pan.
On his mothers advice he lost no time in sending out invitations and making preparations for feast, which kept him busy all day.
The next day the three or four assistants invited arrived.
After some talk about the dispatching of goods and the accounts, they were ushered to their seats.
Xue Pan poured drinks for each in turn to thank them for their work, and Aunt Xue sent a maid out from the inner room to express her thanks as well.
One of the men asked, Why isnt Brother Liu here today?
Did you forget to invite him, sir?
Xue Pan knitted his brows.
Dont bring up his name, he sighed.
None of you know, I suppose, whats happened to him.
Its really tragic.
Two days ago, out of the blue , some crazy Taoist priest persuaded him to renounce the world, and he went away with the priest.
Dont you call that extraordinary?
One of them answered, In the shop we did hear a great hubbub outside about some Taoist priest, who with just a few words persuaded a young man to go away with him.
Some said they disappeared in a gust of wind, others that they rode off on rainbow-coloured clouds there were different accounts.
But we were too busy dispatching goods to pay much attention, so we didnt make further inquiries.
Besides, we were rather sceptical about it.
Now you tell us that the convert was our Brother Liu.
If wed known that, we ought to have dissuaded him and never allowed him to leave.
Its really too bad to have lost such an entertaining friend.
No wonder you feel upset, sir.
But would such an intelligent man really go off with the priest?
Brother Liu can use arms, hes strong.
He may have seen through the priests black magic and just pretended to be taken in, so that he could do for the fellow somewhere else.
One never knows, said Xue Pan.
If thats what happened, fine therell be one less sorcerer casting spells on people.
But when you heard about it, didnt you go to make a search?
they asked.
We searched high and low, inside and outside the city, but couldnt find him.
And when I saw no sign of him you may think me a fool for this I broke down and blubbed.
As he kept sighing and looked very downcast, not urging them to drink in his usual cheerful way, though it was a sumptuous feast with chicken, duck, fish, meat and other delicacies of land and sea, in view of their hosts low spirits the guests did not like to stay too long.
After finishing a few cups of wine and a little food they left.
Meantime Baoyu had taken Daiyu to Baochais place to thank her.
After the usual exchange of civilities, Daiyu said to Baochai Your brother must have been to a lot of trouble bringing back all those things.
Now youve given so many to us, you cant have anything left for yourself.
Exactly.
Why didnt you keep them?
asked Baoyu.
They werent anything good, said Baochai, just some local products from far away, some novelties to amuse us.
Whether I keep any or not doesnt matter.
If theres anything I fancy, next year when my brother makes another trip I can ask him to bring more its no trouble at all.
At once Baoyu chuckled, If he does, well expect you to give us some.
You mustnt forget us.
Speak for yourself, said Daiyu.
Dont drag me in.
Turning to Baochai she added, You see hes not come to thank you, but to order things for next year.
Baoyu laughed.
If I get some, of course youll get a share too.
So you ought to back me up instead of making such sarcastic remarks.
Daiyu just smiled.
How did you two happen to arrive here at the same time?
Baochai asked.
Did one of you fetch the other?
Well, when you sent me these things, I knew Cousin Lin must have her share too, explained Boyu.
So if I wanted to thank you, so would she.
I called to pick her up and come here together, but found her upset and in tears.
I cant understand why shes so fond of crying.
Daiyu shot him a repressive look.
Taking the hint he changed his tune and said, Cousin in hasnt felt too well these last few days.
She was crying for fear her illness might come back.
I tried to comfort her for a while and then we came, partly to thank you, partly because shed feel low sitting all alone in her room.
Its only right to worry about ones health, replied Baochai.
But all one need do is to take extra care about food and sufficient rest, and wearing suitable clothes for different weather.
Why should one feel upset?
Dont you know, cousin, that grieving saps your spirits and energy?
If you do yourself such serious harm youll fall ill. Do remember that.
Youre quite right, cousin, agreed Daiyu.
Of course I know that.
But youve seen how its been with me these last few years.
Not one years gone by without my falling ill once or twice thats what unnerves me.
The very sight of medicine, whether it does me any good or not, gives me a headache, and the smell nauseates me.
How can I help being afraid of a relapse?
Even so, you shouldnt get too upset, urged Baochai.
Instead, whenever you dont feel too well you should make an effort to come out and stroll about to cheer yourself up.
That would be better than sitting moping at home.
Depression just makes your health worse, thats the trouble with it.
A couple of days ago I felt so lazy and limp I longed to lie down, but knowing this is a treacherous time of the year I was afraid I might fall ill, so I forced myself to find something to do, and that way I got over it.
You mustnt mind me saying this, cousin, but the more afraid you are the more likely the devil is to come.
What devil, cousin?
From where?
demanded Baoyu.
Why have I never seen one?
Everyone laughed.
Silly lordling!
mocked Baochai.
Thats just a figure of speech.
There are no such things as devils.
If there were, youd be crying for fright.
Well said, cousin, approved Daiyu with a smile.
Youre right to tick him off for blurting out whatever comes into his head.
So youre pleased whenever people snub me, said Baoyu.
Well, now that youve stopped feeling sad wed better be going.
After a little further chat they said goodbye to Baochai and left, Baoyu seeing Daiyu to Bamboo Lodge before going home himself.
Now when Concubine Zhao saw the presents sent to Huan, she seized on them gleefully, loud in her praise of Baochai.
Everyone speaks of Miss Baochais good manners and generosity, she gushed, and sure enough heres an example today.
How much stuff could her brother bring back?
Yet she sends some to every household, not missing one out or making any distinctions, even thinking of us who dont count for anything here.
This really does her credit!
Miss in, now, shes quite different.
Of course nobody brings her anything but even if they did, shed only send presents to those who have power and big face.
Would she ever think of me or of my son?
This shows that good breeding is really exceptional.
As Concubine Zhao gloated over these presents for Huan, picking them up to play with and examine, it occurred to her that as Baochia was Lady Wangs niece this was a good opportunity to go and make up to her mistress.
So she hurried over with the presents to Lady Wangs room.
Standing to one side there she said, These are things Miss Baochai just gave Huan, things brought her by her brother.
Shes so young yet she thinks of everybody!
I gave the maid who brought them two hundred cash.
I heard that Aunt Xue sent you some gifts too, madam.
I wonder what they are?
So their familys sending us two lots of presents!
How many things could they have got?
Not wonder the old lady and you both praise Miss Baochai and make such a favourite of her.
Shes really most lovable.
While saying this she held out the things she had brought.
But Lady Wang neither looked up nor reached out her hand.
Good, let Huan play with them, was all she said, without so much as glancing at the toys.
Annoyed by this snub, the concubine trailed back dejectedly to her room where she threw the toys aside and started grumbling, scolding and complaining.
As no one asked her what the matter was, she sat there muttering to herself, showing how petty-minded and stupid she was.
Even when good things came her way, she would make so many tactless and irritating remarks that Tanchun can hardly be blamed for being exasperated with her mother and despising her.
When the maid delivering the presents for Baochai returned, she reported how some of the recipients had thanked her and some had given her tips only she had brought back the share for little Qiaojie.
Didnt you take it or wouldnt she accept it?
asked Baochai in surprise.
When I took the things to Master Huan, Yinger explained, I saw Madam ian going to the old ladys place.
As she wouldnt be at home, I didnt know to whom to give Qiaojies share, so I didnt go there.
How silly of you, scolded Baochai.
Even if she were out, Pinger and Fenger would hardly be out as well.
You could have given it to them, and theyd have told Madam Lian when she came back.
Do you have to deliver it to her in person?
So Yinger took the things out of the Garden again.
On the way to Xifengs quarters she told the old maid-servant carrying them for her If Id known that would be all right, I could have saved this trip.
Weve nothing to do at home, so this is a good chance for a stroll, said the old woman.
Only youre not used to much walking, and after going to so many places today I daresay youre tired out, miss.
Still, after delivering this we shall be through, and then you can have a rest.
Still chatting they reached Xifengs place and delivered the gift.
On their return, Baochai asked, Did you see Madam ian?
No, we didnt, Yinger answered.
I suppose she wasnt back then?
She was back, but Fenger told me, Since coming back from the old ladys place she hasnt looked her usual cheerful self her face is black as thunder.
She called Pinger in for a whispered consultation which the rest of us werent allowed to hear she even sent me out.
So youd better not go in.
Ill report that youve come.
Then Fenger took the present in.
When she came out again she said, Our mistress sends her thanks to your young lady.
And she gave us a string of cash.
Then we came back.
Baochai was puzzled by this account, unable to think why Xifeng should be so angry.
But let us return to Baoyu.
When Xiren saw him come home she asked Why didnt you amuse yourself outside a bit longer?
You said you were going with Miss in to thank Miss Baochai.
Did you do that?
Of course thats what I intended to do, said Baoyu, but when I got there I found her in her room weeping over those things.
I understood the reason, but I couldnt very well ask her about it or scold her, so I pretended not to understand and chatted for a while about this and that so as to cheer her up and as soon as she felt better I took her with me to thank Cousin Baochai.
We chatted there for a bit, then I saw Daiyu back before coming home myself.
Did you notice, asked Xiren, whether Miss in got more things than we did or the same amount?
Her share was two or three times bigger.
That shows real understanding and tact, approved Xiren.
Miss Baochai knows that all her other cousins have close relatives at hand to send them presents besides, she and Miss in arent simply relatives but half-sisters too, for, as you know, last year Miss in became Aunt Xues god-daughter.
So it was only right to give her a bigger share.
Baoyu chuckled, You sound like an old judge reviewing a case.
He called a young maid then to fetch him a pillow as he wanted to lie down for a while.
If youre not going out, said Xiren, theres something I want to ask you.
Well, what is it?
You know how good Madam Lians always been to me.
Now shes just getting over a serious illness and for some time Ive been meaning to call on her, but it wasnt convenient while Master ian was at home, so I never went.
Now I hear hes out and youre not going over there today besides, this early autumn weather is neither too hot nor too cold so Id like to go and pay my meet.
And this is a good excuse to take a stroll while you and the other girls keep an eye on things here.
I shant be going long.
Yes, thats what you should do, agreed Qingwen, as you happen to be free now.
I was just saying what a good judge she was in her appraisal of Miss Baochai, Baoyu remarked.
Now in this case shes showing real thoughtfulness too.
Theres no need to heap praise on me, my good young master, replied Xiren with a smile.
Just amuse yourself with them here, but whatever happens dont go to sleep and catch a chill, or the blame will fall on me again.
I know, he said.
You can go.
Xiren went to her room to change into new clothes, then picked up the mirror to tidy her hair and dust her face with powder.
Coming out, she gave Qingwen and Sheyue some further instructions before leaving Happy Red Court.
At Seeping Fragrance Bridge, she paused to look round and enjoy the early autumn scene.
Cicadas were shrilling in the trees, insects chirping in the undergrowth the pomegranate flowers were fading, the lotus leaves withering, but the hibiscus on the river bank had put out clusters of red buds which looked enchanting against the vivid green leaves.
Crossing the bridge then she soon saw Li Wans maid Suyun approaching, followed by an old serving-woman with a lacquer hamper.
Xiren asked where they were taking the hamper and what was in it.
These are caltrops and lotus seeds our mistress is sending Miss Tanchun, Suyun told her.
Were they picked in the stream in our Garden or bought outside?
Mother Liu who works in our house asked leave to go and visit some relatives, then brought these back as a present for our mistress, and Miss Tanchun saw them as she happened to be in our place.
Our mistress had some peeled for her to taste, but she refused as shed just been drinking hot tea and said shed try some later.
So now were taking these to her house.
Then they went their different ways.
In the distance Xiren now saw someone flicking a whisk under a trellis of grapes, but as the sun was in her eyes she could not make out who it was.
Drawing nearer she discovered it was old Mrs. Zhu, who came forward, beaming, to greet her.
How is it you have time to come out for a stroll today, miss?
she asked.
Where are you going?
Ive no time to stroll about, Im on my way to call on Madam ian.
What are you doing here?
Im chasing away the wasps.
This has been such a dry summer, all the trees are infested by insects whove been boring into the fruit so that lots of it has dropped what a wretched waste!
Look at the grapes, just forming such pretty clusters, but the wasps and bees keeping swarming round to bite them.
Worse still, magpies and sparrows come to steal grapes too.
The trouble is that once a sparrow or insect has made a hole in three of four grapes in one cluster, the juice dripping on to the good ones rots them too.
These sparrows and wasps are such a pest, Im here to shoo them away.
Just look, miss, because I stopped for one minute to talk, another swarm of wasps has come.
Even if you keep waving that whisk youll never keep them all away.
As soon as you drive one lot away from here, another will come over there.
Better tell the purveyors to have a whole lot of small gauze bags made.
If you put one bag over each cluster of grapes, the birds and insects wont be able to spoil them and as gauze lets through the air, that wont hurt the grapes.
Thats a good idea, agreed the old woman.
This is my first year at this job, so I dont know these clever dodges.
We have many different kinds of fruit in the Garden, remarked Xiren.
Which kind ripens first?
This is the start of the seventh month.
The grapes are only just turning red.
They wont be really ripe and good to eat until the end of the month.
If you dont believe me, miss Ill pick one for you to taste.
Even if they were ripe, the first fruits have to be sacrificed to Buddha and the next sent to the mistresses.
How can we taste them first?
As an old hand here, surely you know this rule?
The old woman smiled sheepishly.
Youre right, miss.
I only said that because of the question you asked.
But while saying this she was thinking, Drat it all!
Its lucky I was chasing wasps just now.
If Id happened to pick a grape to taste and been spotted, what a to-do thered have been!
Put in a request to Madam Lian for those bags I told you about, Xiren advised her.
Shell get the stewards to have them made.
This said she left by the Garden gate and went straight to Xifengs place.
Xifeng and Pinger were discussing Jia Lians secret marriage.
As Xiren was a rare visitor and they did not know her errand, they broke off their conversation on her arrival.
With a forced smile Xifeng asked, What winds blown such a noble visitor to our humble place?
Xiren replied with a smile, I knew youd tease me when I came, madam, but never mind.
While you were unwell I kept wanting to come and pay my respects, but when Master Lian was at home it wasnt convenient, and I didnt like to disturb you while you were ill, so I didnt venture to come.
As youve always been so kind to me, I knew youd overlook it and not be offended.
Cousin Bao has plenty of maids in his place, but youre the only responsible one, said Xifeng.
Of course you couldnt get away.
Pinger often told me that you were thinking of me and asking after my health, so I felt very pleased.
Now that youre here its I who should be thanking you for your concern.
How could I tease you, my dear Miss Xiren?
If you put it like that, my dear madam, youre really too kind.
Xifeng took Xirens hand and urged her to sit on the kang, but only after declining several times did she take a seat on a stool by it, while Pinger herself fetched in tea.
Let the young maids attend to that, urged Xiren.
I dont like to trouble you, miss.
As she stood up to take the tea, turning her head she noticed in a needlework basket on one side of the kang a small crimson apron of imported satin.
Busy as you are every day, madam, do you still have time to do needlework?
she asked.
Im no needlewoman, said Xifeng.
And now that Ive just got over my illness there are so many family affairs to see to Ive naturally no time for such things Ive even given up doing whats most urgent.
But when I went to pay my respects to the old lady, I saw the gay materials Aunt Xue had sent her, which would look cute made into little clothes for children so I asked the old lady for some.
That provoked our Old Ancestress into baiting me.
She declared I was the bane of her life, the way I demanded and grabbed everything I saw in her place.
She had everyone laughing at me.
You know Im too thick-skinned to mind being scolded, so I just let our Old Ancestress rattle on and pretended not to hear.
Ive given that material to Pinger to first make a small apron for Qiaojie.
With whats left, when Ive time, Ill make some other things.
Youre indeed the only one, madam, who can keep the old lady happy, rejoined Xiren laughingly.
She picked up the sewing to examine it, then commented admiringly, Its really pretty with all these different colours.
A good material needs someone with skilful fingers like this to embroider it.
Especially for Qiaojie.
Why, when shes carried out wearing this, people wont be able to take their eyes off her.
Where is Qiaojie?
she added.
Why havent I seen her all this time?
Pinger told her, Just now Miss Baochai sent over some toys, and she was so tickled with them that she went on playing with them till her wet-nurse carried her off.
She must have gone to sleep now, tired out.
Qiaojie must be growing more and more of a romp.
Her plump little face is like a round silver plate.
She smile at everybody she sees and never offends anyone.
Shes truly a little darling who keeps our mistress amused.
What is Cousin Bao doing at home?
Xifeng inquired.
I begged him to keep an eye on things there with Qingwen and the others, so that I could ask leave and come out, Xiren told her.
But Ive been so engrossed in talking, a long times slipped by and I must be getting back now.
I dont want to have him complaining that Im so lazy, wherever I go I stay sitting there and wont move.
With that she got up, took her leave of them, and went back to Happy Red Court.
After Pinger had seen Xiren out, Xifeng called her back to crossexamine her further.
The more she heard, the more furious she became.
You say you heard from the pages at the inner gate that your Second Master had secretly married another wife outside.
Who told you that?
Lai Wang.
At once Xifeng sent for him.
Did you know that your Second Master had bought a house and married a concubine outside?
she demanded.
Im on duty all day long at the inner gate, stammered Lai Wang.
How could I know about the Second Masters business?
I heard this from Xinger.
When did Xinger tell you?
Before the master left on that trip.
Where is Xinger now?
Hes working in the new mistress house.
In a furious temper Xifeng spat at him.
You contemptible son of an ape, she swore.
Who are you to talk about a new mistress or an old mistress?
How dare you confer the title of mistress on her.
The nonsense you talk, you deserve to be slapped.
Then she asked, Isnt Xinger supposed to wait on the Second Master?
Why didnt he go with him?
He was specially left here to look after Second Sister You thats why.
Xifeng at once ordered him to fetch Xinger.
ai Wang rushed off on this errand and, when he found Xinger fooling about with some other pages outside he simply told him that Xifeng wanted him.
When Xinger heard this, without asking why he was wanted, he hurried with Lai Wang to the inner gate, where he announced his business and was admitted.
Having bowed to Xifeng he stood respectfully to one side.
At sight of him she glared.
What fine goings-on have you, master and slave, been up to outside?
she snapped.
Did you take me for a fool who wouldnt know?
As Second Masters personal attendant, you must know the whole story.
I want the true facts from you.
Any attempt to cover up or lie, and Ill have you beaten till your legs are broken!
Xinger fell on his knees to kowtow.
What goings-on are these, madam, that youre asking about?
How dare you stall, you little bastard!
Im asking how your master fixed things up outside with Second Sister You.
How did he buy the house and furnish it?
How did the marriage take place?
Tell me all these things clearly, you dog, and I may spare your life.
Hearing these explicit questions Xinger reflected Both mansions know about this business the only ones kept in the dark were the old lady, Lord She, Lady Xing and Madam Lian.
As the truths bound to come out in the end, why should I try to cover it up?
I may as well come clean to get off a beating and worse punishment.
For one thing, Im too young to be expected to know how serious this was for another, Ive always known that Madams such a firebrand that even Master ians half afraid of her and, besides, this business was arranged by Master Lian, Lord Zhen and Master Rong between them it had nothing to do with me.
His mind made up, he screwed up his courage.
Have mercy on me, madam!
he begged on his knees.
Ill tell you everything.
It started during our mourning for the Elder Master of the East Mansion.
Second Master happened to meet Second Sister You there a few times, and I suppose he took a fancy to her and wanted to make her his concubine.
So he first discussed it with Master Rong, asking him to act as go-between and arrange the match, and promising him presents if he pulled it off.
Master Rong agreed readily and told Lord Zhen, who broached it to Madam You and old Mrs. You.
Old Mrs. You was quite willing but she said, Second Sister was engaged as a child to the son of the Zhang family so how can I marry her to Master Lian?
If the Zhangs hear of it there may be trouble.
Thats nothing serious, said Lord Zhen.
Leave it to me.
That fellow Zhangs family has been beggared.
If we just give him a few extra taels of silver, we can make him write a document cancelling the engagement and therell be no further trouble.
Later they did fetch that man Zhang and put it to him.
When hed written the document they paid him and off he went.
Then Second Master felt safe enough to go boldly ahead.
Only, for fear lest this came to your ears, madam, and you stopped him, he bought and furnished a small house outside at the back, then took her over.
And Lord Zhen gave him a married couple to work there.
Often, when he says he has business to attend to for Lord She or Lord Zhen, thats a lie an excuse for him to stay outside there.
Originally the mother and the two sisters lived there, and they wanted to arrange a match for Third Sister You too, promising to give her a handsome dowry but now Third Sister Yous dead, so theres only old Mrs. You keeping Second Sister You company.
All this is the truth, I havent dared hide a thing.
With that he kowtowed again.
This account had left Xifeng transfixed with rage, her face livid, her almond eyes squinting.
For a while she trembled convulsively, unable to get a word out for stupefaction.
Then, looking down suddenly, she saw that Xinger was still kneeling there.
Youre not the one most to blame for this, she said.
But when Second Master carried on like that outside you ought to have told me about it earlier.
For not doing that you fully deserve a beating.
Still, since youve told me honestly now, without lying, Ill let you off this time.
I deserve death, madam, for not telling you before.
Again he thumped his head hard on the ground.
Be off now.
As he rose to leave she added, Next time I send for you, mind you come at once.
Dont go far away.
Assenting repeatedly, Xinger withdrew.
Once outside he stuck out his tongue in dismay.
That was touch and go!
he exclaimed.
I only just escaped a good beating.
He regretted having passed on the news to Lai Wang, and was scared stiff for worrying what to say when Jia Jian returned.
But no more of this.
After the page had left, Xifeng turned to Pinger and asked, Did you hear what Xinger said?
Yes, I heard it all.
How can there be such a shameless man in the world?
Guzzling whats in the bowl, he has his eyes on whats in the pan.
He wants every woman he sees, the greedy dog.
Talk about off with the old love and on with the new!
Its a pity to give a lecher like him the insignia of the fifth or sixth rank.
He may believe in the saying that the flowers at home arent as sweet as flowers growing wild but if he thinks that, hes making a big mistake.
Sooner or later hell cause such a scandal outside, he wont be able to face relatives and friends and then only will he give up.
To mollify her Pinger said, Of course youre right to be angry but youve only just got over your illness, madam, you shouldnt let yourself be carried away.
After that affair with Bao Ers wife, the master seemed to be restraining himself and behaving much better.
So why is he having affairs of this sort again?
It must be Lord Zhens fault.
Of course Lord Zhens to blame too.
Still, its because our master is so debauched that its easy for people to tempt him.
As the proverb says, If an ox doesnt want to drink, you cant force it to.
Lord Zhens wife ought to have stopped him from doing such a thing.
Exactly.
How could Madam You let her sister be betrothed to two different families?
First the Zhangs, then the Jias.
Have all the other men in the world died out?
Must all girls marry into our Jia family?
Are we so well off, or what?
Its lucky that slut Third Sister You had sense enough to kill herself first otherwise theyd have married her to Baoyu or Huan.
Madam You doesnt seem to have cared about saving her sisters face how could she ever have held up her head in future?
But she wouldnt worry about that, as after all Second Sister was only her half-sister and, by all accounts, a loose living, shameless bitch.
But Cousin Zhens wife is a lady of rank shouldnt she feel ashamed of having such a flighty sister at home?
Yet instead of trying to keep her away she blatantly brings her here to carry on in that shocking way, not caring if people laugh.
Besides, Lord Zhens an official.
He may not know all the rules of propriety, but surely he knows that its taboo for a man in mourning to marry, or to spurn his wife and take another woman.
What Im wondering is this did he fix this up as a favour for his cousin or to harm him?
Yes, Lord Zhen is too short-sighted, said Pinger.
He just wanted to please his cousin without worrying about the consequences.
Please his cousin?
Xifeng snorted sarcastically.
No, this was giving him poison.
Of all our cousins, hes the oldest and most experienced but instead of setting the others a good example he teaches them bad ways to spoil their reputation.
And when theres a public scandal hell just stand aside watching the fun.
Honestly, I cant find words strong enough to damn him.
The scandalous goings-on in that East Mansion of his dont bear speaking of.
And to cover up his own debauchery he must needs make his cousin follow his example.
Is this the way an elder brother should behave?
He should have drowned himself in his own piss and died in place of his father, for whats his life worth?
Look how virtuous Lord Jing of the East Mansion was, fasting, chanting sutras and doing so many good deeds.
How could he beget a son and grandson like these?
I suppose all the familys good luck, generated by the auspicious geornancy of the ancestral tombs, was used up by the old man.
That does seem to be the case.
How else could they be so lacking in decency?
Its lucky the old lady, Lord She and Lady Xing havent heard of it.
If it came to their ears, not only would our good-for-nothing master get beaten and cursed, even Lord Zhen and Madam You would certainly be made to smart for it.
Xifeng went on cursing and raging, refusing to go over for lunch on the excuse that her head ached.
Seeing that she was working herself up into a greater fury, Pinger urged Youd better calm down, madam.
The things done, so theres no hurry.
Therell be plenty of time to talk it over again after Second Masters return.
Xifeng gave a couple of snorts.
After his return?
No, that would be too late.
Pinger knelt down to reason with her and comfort her, till at length Xifeng calmed down enough to sip some tea.
Then, after taking some deep breaths, she asked for her pillow and lay down on the bed, her eyes closed as she considered what to do.
When Pinger saw that she was resting, she withdrew.
And when some people ignorant of what had happened arrived to report on their business, they were sent packing by Fenger.
Then Manao was sent by the Lady Dowager to ask Why hasnt the Second Mistress gone over for lunch?
The old ladys worried and sent me to see whats wrong.
As it was the Lady Dowager who had sent to inquire, Xifeng forced herself to get up.
Ive a bit of a headache, nothing serious, she said.
Tell the old lady not to worry.
After lying down for a while Im feeling better.
With that she sent the maid back.
She then thought the whole business over carefully once more, and hit on a cunning plan to kill several birds with one stone, working out the safest measures to achieve this.
This done, instead of disclosing her plan to Pinger, she behaved as cheerfully as if nothing had happened, giving no sign of her fury and jealousy.
She sent a maid to fetch Lai Wang and ordered him to bring workers the next day to clean up, repaper and furnish the eastern rooms in their compound.
Pinger and the others were nonplussed by this.
If you want to know the upshot, read the next chapter.
Chapter 68 Unhappy Second Sister You Is Decoyed into Grand View Garden Jealous Xifeng Makes a Scene in the Ning Mansion When Jia Lian left on his mission, it so happened that the Governor of Pinganzhou was away for a month inspecting border areas.
To get a definite reply, Jia Lian had to wait in the hostel for his return.
Thus by the time the governor came back, received him and settled the matter, nearly two months had passed.
Xifengs plans were already laid.
As soon as Jia Lian left she ordered workmen to fix up the three rooms on the eastern side, decorating and furnishing them just like her own.
On the fourteenth, she reported to the Lady Dowager and Lady Wang that she wanted to go to the nunnery to offer incense the next morning, taking only Pinger, Fenger and the wives of Zhou Rui and Lai Wang.
Before setting out she disclosed her true purpose to them and ordered them all to wear mourning.
Then they set off, Xinger leading the way, to the house where Second Sister You lived.
He knocked at the gate, which was opened by Bao Ers wife.
Xinger announced with a grin, Tell the Second Mistress that Madam Lian is here.
Quick!
Frightened out of her wits, Bao Ers wife flew in to report this.
Second Sister You, too, was taken aback but since Xifeng had come she had no choice but to receive her with befitting respect.
She hastily straightened her clothes and went out to meet her as Xifeng dismounted from her carriage and stepped through the gate.
Second Sister You saw that Xifeng had nothing but silver trinkets in her hair and was wearing a pale blue satin jacket, black satin cape and white silk skirt.
Under eyebrows arched like willow leaves her almond eyes were as bright as those of a phoenix she was pretty as peach blossom in spring, simple and austere as chrysanthemums in autumn.
As the wives of Zhou Rui and Lai Wang helped her into the courtyard, Second Sister You stepped forward with a smile to curtsey to her, addressing her as elder sister.
I wasnt expecting the honour of this visit, so I didnt come out to meet you, she apologized.
Please overlook my negligence, elder sister.
Again she curtseyed.
Smiling, Xifeng returned her greeting and hand in hand they entered the house, where Xifeng took the seat of honour while Second Sister ordered her maid to bring a cushion, then knelt to pay her respects.
Your slave is young, she said.
Since coming here, Ive left all decisions to my mother and my step-sister.
Now that Ive had the good fortune to meet you, elder sister, if you dont consider me too far beneath you Id like to ask for your advice and instructions.
Ill bare my heart to you, too, and wait upon you.
She bowed low.
Xifeng left her seat to return the courtesy.
This all comes of my behaving like a silly woman, she answered, for ever advising my husband to take good care of his health and keep away from brothels, to spare his parents worry.
Were both fond, foolish women.
But he seems to have misunderstood me.
If hed taken a mistress outside and hidden it from me, that wouldnt have signified but now hes taken you as his second wife, and thats an important matter, in accordance with the rules of propriety, yet he never told me about it.
Actually, Id advised him to take another wife, because if he begets a son I, too, shall have someone to rely on in future.
But he seems to have thought me the jealous type, and so he took this important step in secret.
That was really wronging me!
And to whom can I complain but to Heaven and Earth?
This came to my ears about ten days ago, but for fear of vexing my husband I didnt venture to take it up with him.
Now that he happens to have gone on a long journey, Ive come to call on you in person.
I do hope youll understand how much I take this to heart and agree to move into our house so that we can live together as sisters, both of one mind, to advise Second Master to pay careful attention to his business and to look after his health.
This is only right and proper.
Foolish and lowly as I am, and unworthy of your company, if we live in separate establishments like this, how do you suppose I can set my mind at rest?
Besides, once outsiders know, it will reflect badly on both of our reputations.
Not that gossip about us is so serious its Second Masters reputation that really counts.
Besides, its entirely up tp you to save me from getting a bad name.
I daresay youve heard talk about me from servants who think I run the household too strictly and most likely exaggerate behind my back.
But how can someone as intelligent and broad-minded as you believe such disgruntled talk?
If I were really so impossible, why have three generations of my seniors as well as all my cousins and in-laws and dont forget that the Jias are a well-known old family put up with me all this time?
Anyone else would have been angry at his marrying you in secret like this outside, but I actually consider it a blessing which shows that the gods and Buddhas of Heaven and Earth dont want me to be defamed by those low creatures slander.
Ive come today to beg you to move in and live with me, on the same footing, share and share alike to serve our father and mother-in-law and advise our husband together, and share the same griefs and joys like real sisters.
Then those low types will be sorry they sized me up wrongly and when Second Master comes back and sees this, he as our husband will regret his mistake.
So, sister, youll have become my benefactress, redeeming my reputation.
If you wont agree to coming back with me, Ill gladly move out to live with you here and wait on you like a younger sister.
All I beg of you is to put in a few good words for me to Second Master, so that hell allow me somewhere to stay.
Then I shall die content.
With that she started sobbing and weeping, moving Second Sister to tears too.
After this exchange they resumed their seats, and now Pinger came in to pay her respects.
As she was unusually welldressed and looked a cut above the other maids, Second Sister You realized who she was and hastily laid a restraining hand on her arm.
Dont do that, sister!
she exclaimed.
You and I are of the same rank.
Xifeng rose with a smile to protest, Dont overrate her that would spoil what little good fortune she may have!
Just let her pay her respects, sister.
Shes after all our maid.
Theres no need to stand on ceremony with her.
She then ordered Zhou Ruis wife to unwrap four rolls of fine silk and four pairs of jewelled trinkets set in gold as her gift to Second Sister You at this first meeting, and these were accepted with thanks.
Then, sipping tea, they spoke of what had happened.
It was all my fault, Xifeng kept reiterating.
No one else is to blame.
But do be good to me.
Second Sister, quite taken in by her protestations, thought it was only natural for disgruntled servants to run down their mistress.
So she replied very frankly, treating Xifeng as a trusted friend.
Moreover, Mrs. Zhou and the other serving women there praised Xifeng for her goodness, saying it was her being honest to a fault which had given rise to resentment.
They announced too that the house had been made ready, as the new mistress would see for herself when she moved in.
Second Sister had always thought it would be better for her to live in the Jia mansion, and hearing all this she naturally agreed.
I ought to accompany you, sister, she said.
But what about this household here?
Thats no problem, Xifeng assured her.
Just get the servants to take over your personal belongings.
The furniture here wont be needed.
You can assign anyone you think fit to stay here so as to keep an eye on it.
Since Ive met you today, elder sister, Ill leave all the arrangements for the removal to you.
I havent been here long, and never having run a house before Im too inexperienced to make decisions.
These few cases can be taken.
Ive really nothing else here of my own, the other things belong to Second Master.
Xifeng ordered Zhou Ruis wife to make a note of these cases and see to it that they were carried carefully to the eastern rooms.
Then she urged Second Sister to put on her jewels and they went out hand in hand to mount the carriage, in which they sat side by side.
Our family rules are strict, Xifeng now told her confidentially.
So far the old lady knows nothing about this business.
If they learned that the Second Master married you while still in mourning, theyd have him beaten to death!
So we cant present you yet to Their Ladyships.
We have a very big garden where the girls of our family live, but other people hardly ever go there.
Now that youre moving over, you can stay in the Garden for a couple of days till Ive found some way to break this news, and then it will be all right to pay your respects.
Do exactly as you think best, elder sister, acquiesced Second Sister.
As the pages accompanying the carriage had received their orders in advance, instead of entering the main gate they went straight to the one at the back and as soon as the ladies alighted, everyone in the neighbourhood was chased away.
Then Xifeng led Second Sister through the back gate of Grand View Garden to see Li Wan.
By this time most of the inmates of the Garden had heard the news.
Now that they saw Xifeng bringing Second Sister in, they flocked over to see her and she greeted each in turn.
Not one but was very favourably impressed by her beauty and her charm.
Dont let word of this get out, Xifeng warned them all.
If it comes to the ears of Their Ladyships, Ill kill the lot of you!
The matrons and maids in the Garden were all afraid of Xifeng.
And as Jia Lian had taken this second wife while observing state mourning and family mourning too, they knew it was a most serious offence and took care not to speak of the matter.
Xifeng quietly asked Li Wan to put up the new arrival for a few days.
Once this business is straightened out.
she said, of course shell move over with me.
Knowing that rooms had been made ready in Jia Lians quarters and that it would not be fitting to announce this marriage during the period of mourning, Li Wan agreed.
Xifeng then dismissed all Second Sisters maids, assigning some of her own to wait on her, and ordered the women in the Garden to look after her well.
If she disappears or runs away, youll have to answer for it!
she threatened them, after which she went off to make other secret arrangements.
Everyone in the household was amazed to see how benevolent Xifeng had become.
As for Second Sister, now that she had found this niche and all the girls in the Garden treated her well, she was quite contented and happy, thinking her future assured.
After three days, however, Shanjie, the maid assigned to her, started showing signs of insubordination.
Theres no hair-oil left, Second Sister told her.
Go and ask Madam Lian for some.
How can you be so inconsiderate, madam?
Shanjie retorted.
Madam Lian has to look after the old lady every day, as well as the mistresses of both mansions and all the young ladies.
At the same time she has to give orders to several hundred men-servants and women-servants all told.
Not a day goes by but she has ten or twenty important matters to attend to, besides dozens of minor ones.
Outside, she has to see to sending gifts and returning the courtesies of so many noble families from Her Imperial Highness down to princess and marquises on top of which she has to cope with countless relatives and friends, as well as receiving or sending out thousands of taels of silver every day.
How can you trouble her with trifles like this?
I wouldnt be so demanding if I were you.
Yours isnt a proper marriage.
Shes treating you well because shes so exceptionally kind and generous.
If not for that, hearing the way you talk, she could well storm at you and kick you out.
And then what could you do?
Youd really be stranded.
This harangue made Second Sister hang her head.
She saw she would just have to stomach such slights.
And things went from bad to worse Shanjie even stopped fetching her meals, or served them unpunctually, bringing nothing but scraps.
If Second Sister complained, the maid started screaming at her but for fear others might scoff that she didnt know her place, she had to put up with it.
Every week or so when she happened to see Xifeng, the latter was all smiles and sweetness, for ever addressing her as my dear sister.
If any servants are remiss and you cant control them, just let me know and Ill have them beaten, promised Xifeng.
Then she scolded the maids and matrons, I know the way you take advantage of those who are kind and fear only those who are hard on you.
Once my backs turned youre not afraid of anyone.
If I hear one word of complaint from the second mistress, Ill have your lives for it!
Second Sister was taken in by this show of kindness.
With her taking my side like this, Id better not make any fuss, she reflected.
Some servants have no sense, thats only natural.
If I report them and get them into trouble, Im the one people will blame.
So she covered up for the maids instead.
Meanwhile Xifeng had sent Lai Wang out to make detailed inquiries, and had now ascertained that Second Sister had indeed been engaged before to a certain Zhang Hua now nineteen, a wastrel and loafer who spent his time gambling and whoring and had squandered his familys money.
Having been driven out by his father, he now stayed in a gambling den.
And his father, without telling him, had accepted ten taels of silver from old Mrs. You for cancelling the engagement.
After Xifeng had learned all these particulars, she gave Lai Wang a packet of twenty taels of silver and secretly ordered him to get Zhang Hua to stay with him and bring a suit against Jia Lian.
He was to accuse him of marrying during a period of state and family mourning, against Imperial decree and unknown to his parents of relying on his wealth and power to force Zhang Hua to renounce his engagement and of taking a second wife without the consent of his first.
Zhang Hua, however, only too well aware of the danger involved, dared not bring such a charge.
When Lai Wang reported this to Xifeng she fumed Damn him for a mangy cur that wont let itself be hepled over a wall!
Go and explain to him that it doesnt matter even if he accuses our family of high treason.
I just want him to make a row so that everyone loses face.
If big trouble comes of it, I can always smooth things over.
Lai Wang carried out her orders and explained this to Zhang Hua.
Xifeng also instructed Lai Wang, Get him to implicate you, then you can confront him in court Ill tell you just what to say and I guarantee everything will be all right.
When Lai Wang saw that he had Xifengs backing, he told Zhang Hua to include his name in his charge.
Just accuse me of acting as the middleman and of putting Second Master up to this, he said.
Zhang Hua, given this cue, acted on Lai Wangs advice and wrote out his plaint, taking it the next morning to the Court of Censors.
When the judge took his seat in the court and saw that this charge against Jia Lian involved his servant Lai Wang, he had no choice but to send for the latter to answer the charge.
The runners, not daring to enter the Jia mansion, meant to order a servant to deliver the summons.
But Lai Wang had reckoned on their coming, and was already waiting out in the street, When he saw the runners he approached them with a smile.
Sorry to have put you to this trouble, brothers, he said, I must have done wrong.
All right, put the chains round my neck.
Not venturing to do this, they replied, Please just come quietly, sir, and stop joking.
Then Lai Wang went to the court and knelt down before the judge, who showed him the charge.
He pretended to read it through and then kowtowed.
I was in the know about this, he admitted.
My master did this all right.
But this fellow Zhang Hua has a grudge against me, thats why hes accused me of being the middleman.
Actually, it was someone else.
I beg Your Honour to make investigations.
Zhang Hua, knowtowing too, said, Thats true but its someone I dared not mention, thats why I accused the servant instead.
Silly fool!
Lai Wang made a show of desperation.
Hurry up and come clean.
This is a government court.
You must name him even if hes a gentleman.
Then Zhang Hua named Jia Rong.
And the judge had to have him served with a summons.
Xifeng had secretly sent Qinger to find out when this summons was issued.
Now she promptly called for Wang Xin, explained what had happened, and told him to go and bribe the judge with three hundred taels just to make a display of severity in order to frighten the culprits.
That evening Wang Xin went to the judges house and fixed things up.
The judge, knowing the situation, accepted the bribe and the next day announced in court that Zhang Hua was a scoundrel who had trumped up this charge against innocent people because he was in debt to the Jia family.
For as this judge was on good terms with Wang Ziteng, after a word in private from Wang Xin he was all for settling the matter without making trouble for the Jias.
He therefore said no more, simply detained the plaintiff and the accused and summoned Jia Rong to court.
Jia Rong was seeing to some business for Jia Zhen when someone brought him word of this charge against him and urged him to think of a way out at once.
He made haste to report this to Jia Zhen.
I was prepared for this but that fellow certainly has a nerve!
said Jia Zhen.
At once he sealed two hundred taels in a packet to be sent to the judge, and ordered a servant to go and answer the charge.
As they were discussing their next step, the arrival of Madam Lian from the West Mansion was announced.
Both men started and wanted to slip away into hiding, but it was too late Xifeng had already entered.
A fine elder brother you are!
she cried.
A fine thing you got your younger brother to do!
Jia Rong hastily stepped forward to pay his respects.
Xifeng simply caught hold of him and went on in.
Entertain your aunt well, said Jia Zhen.
Order a good meal for her.
He then called for his horse and made off.
Xifeng marched Jia Rong towards the inner rooms and Madam You came out to meet her.
Whats the matter?
she asked, seeing how furious she looked.
Why this hurry?
Xifeng spat in her face.
Couldnt you find husbands for the girls of your You family that you had to smuggle them into the Jia family?
she demanded.
Are all men of the has so wonderful?
Have all the other men in the world died out?
Even if you want to pawn off your sisters, theres a proper procedure for marriage and it should be announced in a decent way.
Have you taken leave of your senses?
How could you send her over during a time of state and family mourning?
And now that someones brought a charge against us, Im all in a flurry.
Even the court thinks me a jealous shrew and has summoned me to stand trial.
My name will be mud!
And I shall be divorced!
What wrong have I done you since Ive come to this house that you treat me so cruelly?
Or did Their Ladyships tip you a hint to trap me like this so as to get rid of me?
Lets go to face the judge now, both of us, to clear this up.
Then we can put the case before the whole clan.
If they give me a bill of divorce, Ill leave.
Sobbing and storming she caught hold of Madam You, insisting on going to court.
Jia Rong knelt in desperation and kowtowed, begging her not to be angry.
May lightning blast your skull!
she swore at him.
May five devils tear you apart, you heartless wretch!
You fear nothing in heaven or on earth, playing such dirty tricks all the time and doing such shameless, lawless things to ruin our family.
Even your dead mothers spirit will disown you, so will all your ancestors.
How dare you appeal to me?
After this tearful tirade she raised her hand to strike him.
Jia Rong thumped his head on the ground again.
Dont be angry, aunt!
he cried.
Dont hurt your hand let me slap myself instead.
Please dont be angry, auntie.
He raised his hands and slapped himself on both cheeks.
Will you meddle in that thoughtless way again?
he asked himself.
Just listen to your uncle and not to your aunt?
All present, repressing smiles, begged him to stop.
And now Xifeng threw herself into Madam Yous arms to weep and wail, calling on Heaven and Earth.
I wouldnt mind you finding another wife for your brother in-law, she sobbed.
But why make him flout the Imperial decree and keep it secret from his parents?
Why give me a bad name?
We must go to find the judge before he sends police and runners to arrest me.
After that we must go and see Their Ladyships and call the whole clan together to discuss this.
If Ive acted so badly, refusing to let my husband take a second wife or another concubine, just give me a bill of divorce and Ill leave at once.
Actually, Ive fetched your sister here myself, but didnt venture to report it to Their Ladyships for fear theyd be angry.
She has maids in the Garden to wait on her hand and foot, and Ive prepared rooms for her in our place exactly like my own, where I meant to take her as soon as the old lady knew.
We could all have settled down then, minding our own business, and Id have let bygones be bygones.
How was Ito know that she was engaged to another man before?
How was Ito know what youd been up to?
Yesterday, hearing that her betrothed had brought a charge against me, I was so desperate that I had to take five hundred taels of the mistress silver to use as a bribe because if I were summoned to court your ha family would lose face.
And my servant is still locked up by the police.
She went on storming and wailing, sobbingly invoking their ancestors and her parents, then tried to dash out her brains and kill herself.
Madam You, reduced to a squelch, her clothes covered with tears and snot, could only round on Jia Rong.
You degenerate!
she scolded.
You and your father are to blame for this.
I warned you against it.
Xifeng let out another wail, clasping Madam Yous face between both hands.
Were you crazy?
she demanded.
Was your mouth stuffed with eggplant or with a bit and curb, that you couldnt let me know?
If you had, I wouldnt be in such a fix, with this business so out of hand its been taken to court.
Yet youre still trying to shift the blame to them!
As the saying goes, A good wife keeps her husband out of trouble a sound woman counts for more than a sound man.
If you were any good, how could they do such things?
Youre as stupid and dumb as a gourd with its tip sawn off.
All you care about, you fool, is getting a name for goodness.
So theyre not afraid of you and wont listen to what you say.
She spat again and again in disgust.
Thats how it was, really, sobbed Madam You.
If you dont believe me, ask the servants.
Of course I tried to stop them they just wouldnt listen.
So what could I do?
I dont blame you for being angry, sister, but I simply couldnt help it.
The concubines and maids kneeling fearfully round them now pleaded with Xifeng, Youre so wise and understanding, madam, even if our mistress did wrong youve got even with her now.
Usually, in front of us slaves, youre both on the best of terms.
So please leave her some face!
They brought Xifeng some tea, but she smashed the cup.
However, she stopped crying and smoothed her hair.
Fetch your father here!
she ordered Jia Rong.
I want to ask him why, with still a fortnight to go before the mourning for the uncle was over, he let the nephew take a wife.
Ive never heard of such a thing!
I must learn the rules of propriety from him so as to pass them on later to the young people.
Still on his knees, Jia Rong kowtowed and protested, This had nothing to do with my parents.
It was I who put my uncle up to it I must have eaten some shit.
My father knew nothing about it.
Hes gone now to prepare for the funeral procession.
If you make a scene, aunt, it will be the death of me.
Whatever punishment you impose Ill accept it, but for pitys sake settle this court case its too serious for me to handle.
Youre so intelligent you know the saying If your arm is broken, hide it in your sleeve.
I was an utter fool.
As Ive done such a despicable thing, Im just like a cat or a dog.
Now that youve given me this lesson, auntie, do please do your best to settle this with the court.
Though Ive been so undutiful and wronged you, aunt, by causing all this trouble, what else can I do but beg you to take pity on me!
He went on kowtowing as if he would never stop.
The behaviour of mother and son made it hard for Xifeng to go on storming at them.
She had to adopt a different attitude now.
Apologizing to Madam You she said, Im too young and inexperienced.
When I heard the case had been taken to court, I was frightened out of my wits.
How could I have been so rude to you just now, sister!
Still, Rong is right If your arm is broken, hide it in your sleeve.
You must forgive me.
And please ask Cousin Zhen to lose no time in settling this lawsuit.
Dont worry, Madam You and Jia Jung assured her.
Uncle wont be involved at all, added Jia Rong.
You said just now youd spent five hundred taels, aunt.
Of course well get together that sum and send it over to make it up to you.
How can we make you out of pocket over us?
That would be even more outrageous.
But one thing, aunt, will you help see to it that no word of this reaches Their Ladyships?
Xifeng smiled sarcastically at Madam You.
First you stab me in the back and now you ask me to hush it us for you!
I may be a fool but Im not all that foolish.
Your cousin happens to be my husband, sister.
If you were worried because he had no son, wouldnt I be still more worried?
I look on your younger sister as my own sister.
When I heard about this I was too excited to sleep and made my people get ready rooms at once, to fetch her in to live with up.
Actually the servants had more sense they said, Youre too kind-hearted, madam.
It seems to us it would be better to wait till youve reported this to Their Ladyships and see what they have to say.
That made me rage at them, so they said no more.
But nothing worked out as I wanted.
Like a slap in the face or a bolt from the blue came this suit brought by Zhang Hua.
I had to beg people to find out who this Zhang Hua was, that he had such a nerve and two days later I was told he was a rascally beggar.
Being young and ignorant, I laughed and asked what hed accused us of.
The servants told me, The new mistress was engaged to him.
Now hes desperate, liable to starve of freeze to death anyway, so hes seized on this chance.
Even if he dies for it, its a better bet than dying of hunger and cold so how can you blame him?
After all, the master acted too hastily and was guilty of two offences by marrying during state mourning and family mourning.
He was wrong, too, to keep it a secret from his parents and to take a new wife without his wifes consent.
As the proverb says, One who will risk being sliced to pieces dare unsaddle the Emperor.
A man so desperately poor will go to any lengths.
Hes in the right too, so why not make an indictment?
So you see, sister, even if Id been as wise as Han Xin or Zhang Liang, such talk would have frightened me out of my wits.
Besides, with my husband away, I had no one to consult I could only try to patch things up with money.
Yet the more I gave him, the more I was at his mercy and the more he blackmailed me.
But how much can he squeeze out of me?
No more than from a pimple on a rats tail.
Thats why I panicked and flew into such a rage that I came looking for you Not waiting for her to finish, Madam You and her son said, Dont worry.
Well see to it.
Jia Rong added, Its Zhang Huas poverty thats made him so reckless hes risked his life to indict us.
I know what to do.
Promise him some money and get him to admit that he brought a false accusation then we can settle the business.
When he comes out, well give him some more silver and that will be that.
What a clever boy!
said Xifeng derisively.
No wonder that you did this thing with no thought of the consequences.
How stupid you are!
Suppose he agreed to what you proposed and got money from us after the case was settled, of course that would be that for the time being.
But as such people are rascals, as soon as that silver was spent hed start blackmailing us again.
If he made further trouble what should we do?
We may not be afraid of him, still its something to worry about.
And he can always say if we hadnt wronged him why should we give him money?
Jia Rong had sense enough to understand this.
He said with a smile, Well, I have another plan.
Since I caused the trouble its up to me to fix it.
Ill go and sound Zhang Hua out.
Does he want her back, or will he give her up and settle for money with which he can marry another girl?
If he insists on having her, Ill go and persuade my second aunt to leave here and marry him if he wants money, we shall have to give him some.
Thats all very well, said Xifeng hastily.
I certainly dont want her to leave us, and I certainly wont let her.
If youve any feeling for me, nephew, just give him a bigger sum in settlement.
Jia Rong knew very well that in spite of Xifengs protestations she really wanted to get rid of Second Sister and was only posing as broad-minded.
He had to agree, however, to whatever she said, at which she looked delighted.
The problem outside is easy to handle, but what about the arrangement at home?
Xifeng now asked.
You must come back with me to report this.
This threw Madam You into another panic.
She begged Xifeng to make up some story for her.
If you cant talk your way out, why do this in the first place?
asked Xifeng sarcastically.
Ive no patience with the way youre carrying on.
But it wouldnt be like me to refuse to find a way out for you, as Im so soft-hearted that even when people trick me I still act like a fool.
All right then, Ill see to this.
Both of you keep out of it.
Ill take your sister to pay her respects to Their Ladyships, and tell them that I took a fancy to her, and because I have no son I was thinking of buying a couple of concubines.
Finding your sister so charming, and as were relatives too, I wanted her to be Lians second wife.
But because her parents and sister had died recently and she was finding it hard to manage, with no home of her own, how could she possibly wait till after the full hundred days mourning?
So I decided to bring her into our house, and Ive made the side rooms ready for her to stay in for the time being.
Once the mourning is over she can live with my husband.
I shall brazen it out somehow in my shameless way.
If anyone is blamed it wont be you.
What do you think of this plan?
Madam You and Jia Rong responded, Its most generous and kind of you.
How clever you are!
Once its settled, well certainly both come to thank you.
Madam You ordered her maids to help Xifeng wash her face and comb her hair.
Then the table was spread and she herself served the wine and food.
Before long, however, Xifeng rose to go.
She went to the Garden and told Second Sister what had happened, explaining how worried she had been, how she had ascertained the facts, and what would have to be done to keep them all out of trouble.
She promised to get them out of the dilemma.
To know what her plans really were, read the next chapter.
Chapter 69 Crafty Xifeng Kills Her Rival by Proxy And Second Sister Swallows Gold and Dies Unable to express all her gratitude, Second Sister went off with Xifeng.
And propriety required Madam You to accompany them to report to the old lady.
You neednt say anything.
Xifeng assured her, Leave all the talking to me.
Of course, agreed Madam You.
If theres any blame well let you take it.
They went first to the Lady Dowagers room where she was chatting and laughing with the girls from the Garden.
At sight of the pretty young woman Xifeng had brought in, the old lady looked at her searchingly.
Whose child is this?
she asked.
So charming!
Xifeng stepped forward and said with a smile, Take a good look, Old Ancestress.
Isnt she sweet?
Pulling Second Sister forward too, she told her, This is grandmother-in-law.
Hurry up and kowtow to her.
At once Second Sister prostrated herself to pay her respects.
Then Xifeng introduced the girls to her one by one.
Now you know them, she said.
After the old ladys through with inspecting you, you can pay your respects to each other.
Second Sister pretended that this was the first time she had met them, then stood there with lowered head while the Lady Dowager looked her up and down.
What is your name?
she inquired.
How old are you?
Never mind about that, Old Ancestress, Xifeng chuckled.
Just say, is she prettier than me?
The old lady put on her spectacles, telling Yuanyang and Hupo, Bring the child closer.
I want to look at her skin.
Amid suppressed laughter, Second Sister was pushed forward and subjected to a carefully scrutiny.
Then the Lady Dowager made Hupo hold out her hands for inspection.
Yuanyang lifted Second Sisters skirt as well to show her feet.
Her examination at an end, the old lady took off her spectacles.
Perfect!
she pronounced.
Shes even prettier than you.
Smiling.
Xifeng promptly knelt down to relate in detail the story she had made up in Madam Yous room.
Do take pity on her, Old Ancestress, she pleaded.
Let her move in now, and after a year they can be formally married.
Thats quite in order, the old lady conceded.
Im glad yourre so understanding and tolerant.
But she mustnt live with Lian for a year.
Xifeng kowtowed, then got up and requested that two maids be sent to present Second Sister to Lady Xing and Lady Wang and tell them this was the old ladys decision.
The Lady Dowager agreed and this was done.
Lady Wang had been worried because of Xifengs bad name.
Now that she was taking in a second wife for her husband, she was naturally pleased.
So from now on Second Sister could come into the open, and she moved to Xifengs side rooms.
Xifeng meanwhile sent a messenger in secret to urge Zhang Hua to insist on claiming his bride, promising that in addition to a generous dowry he would be given money to set up house.
For Zhang Hua himself was too spineless to dare sue the Jia family.
Then Jia Rong sent a man to court to contend, It was Zhang Hua who first gave up the engagement.
Being related to the You family we did, it is true, invite her to stay in our house but there was no talk of marriage.
Because Zhang Hua owed us money and could not pay it, he trumped up this charge against our master.
As the judges were all connected with the Jia and Wang families and had in addition accepted bribes from them, they condemned Zhang Hua as a rascal whom poverty had driven to blackmail.
His plea rejected, he was beaten and thrown out of court.
But Qinger outside had fixed it with the runners not to beat him severely.
And now Qinger told Zhang Hua, As you were engaged to the girl first, if you demand her the court will have to give her to you.
Thereupon Zhang Hua brought a new suit but again Wang Xin took a message to the judge, and the courts verdict was Zhang Huas debt to the Jia family must be repaid in full by a specified date.
As for his betrothed, he can marry her when he has the means.
Zhang Huas father, summoned to court to hear this verdict after having been told the situation by Qinger, exulted that now he would get both the money and the girl.
He went to the Jia mansion to fetch Second Sister.
Xifeng with a great show of alarm reported this to the Lady Dowager.
This muddle is all my sister-in-law Zhens fault!
she complained.
Apparently the engagement was never really cancelled.
Thats why the Zhangs took the case to court, and now this decisions been made.
The old lady sent at once for Madam You.
Because your sister was promised from childhood to the Zhang family, and they never broke the engagement, theyve brought this charge against us now, she scolded.
But they took the money, protested Madam You.
How can they still claim her?
Xifeng put in, According to Zhang Hua, he never saw any money, and no one contacted him.
According to his father, Second Sisters mother did make such an offer but they turned it down and after her mother died you took her in as a secondary wife.
As weve no proof to the contrary, he can talk any nonsense he pleases.
Its lucky Second Master Lian isnt at home and they havent been formally married.
Still, as shes already here, how can we send her back?
Wouldnt that make us lose face?
The old lady said, Theyre not married yet, and it wouldnt look good to seize someone promised to another man.
That would damage our reputation.
Wed better send her back.
Itll be easy enough to find some other nice girl.
When Second Sister heard this she exclaimed, My mother really did give them ten taels of silver to cancel the engagement.
Now in desperation because hes poor, he denies it.
My sister did nothing wrong.
That shows how troublesome such rascals are, said the Lady Dowager.
Well, I leave it to you, Xifeng to sort this out.
Xifeng had to comply.
On her return she sent for Jia Rong, who knew perfectly what she was aiming at.
He realized what a great loss of face it would be if Second Sister were to be reclaimed by the Zhangs, so he reported this to Jia Zhen and secretly sent Zhang Hua the message Now that youve got so much money, why must you have the girl back?
If you insist, the gentlemen may get angry and find a way to kill you where no one will bury you.
With money, you can go home and find a good bride.
If you do that, well help with your travelling expenses.
Zhang Hua on reflection thought this a good idea.
He discussed it with his father, and they reckoned they were now the richer by about a hundred taels.
So the next day at dawn, father and son started home.
When Jia Rong heard this he told the Lady Dowager and Xifeng, Zhang Hua and his father have fled for fear of being punished for bringing a false charge.
The court knows of this but has decided to let the matter drop.
The whole business is over!
Xifeng reflected, If I make Zhang Hua reclaim Second Sister, Lian on his return will most likely offer more money to get her back, and Zhang Huas bound to agree.
So Id better keep her here with me until Ive made other plans.
The only snag is we dont know where Zhang Hua will go, and whether hell spread this story or come back later to reopen this case.
If he does, Ill have cut my own throat!
I should never have given other people this handle against me.
She bitterly regretted what she had done.
Then she hit on another plan.
She quietly ordered Lai Wang to send men to find Zhang Hua, then either hale him to court on a charge of theft and have him done to death, or send assassins to kill him secretly.
In this way the root of the trouble would be removed and her reputation assured.
Lai Wang went home and thought over these instructions.
Since the mans gone and the matters dropped, why do anything so drastic?
he asked himself.
Taking someones life is a serious crime, no joke.
Ill fool her into thinking its done instead.
He lay low outside for a few days, then returned to report that Zhang Hua, traveling with a fair amount of silver had been beaten and killed at dawn one day by some highwaymen in the Jingkou district, and his father had died of fright in the inn.
A post-mortem had been held there and the bodies buried.
Xifeng did not believe him.
If I find youve been lying, Ill knock out your teeth!
she threatened.
But there the matter rested.
Meanwhile Xifeng and Second Sister were on the best of terms, to all appearances closer even than sisters.
When Jia Lian finally came home after completing his business, he went straight to the new house.
But it was locked up and deserted, with only an old caretaker there who told him all that had happened.
Jia Lian stamped his foot in the stirrup, then went to report on his mission to his parents.
ha She, very pleased, praised his competence and rewarded him with a hundred taels of silver as well as a new concubine a seventeen-year-old maid of his named Qiutong.
Jia Lian kowtowed his thanks and left in high spirits.
Having paid his respects to the Lady Dowager and other members of the family he went home somewhat sheepishly to see Xifeng, but found her less stern than usual.
She came out with Second Sister to welcome him and ask after his health.
Then Jia Lian, telling her of his fathers gift, could not help looking pleased and proud.
Xifeng immediately sent two servingwomen to fetch Qiutong by carriage.
Before she had rid herself of one thorn in her side, here out of the blue was another!
However, she had to watch her tongue and hide her anger by a show of complaisance, ordering a feast of welcome, then taking Qiutong to present her to the Lady Dowager and Lady Wang, much to her husbands amazement.
On the Double Twelfth, ha Zhen rose early to sacrifice to the ancestors, then took his leave of the Lady Dowager and other ladies of the family.
Most of the men saw him off to the Pavilion of Tearful Parting, only Jia Lian and ha Rong accompanying him all the way to the temple and back, a trip taking three days and three nights.
On the road, Jia Zhen admonished them on the need to run their households well, and they gave him the appropriate assurances there is no need to dwell on their conversation.
To return to Xifeng at home.
Outwardly, it goes without saying, she treated Second Sister well but inwardly she plotted to destroy her.
When the two of them were alone she told Second Sister, You have such a bad name, sister, even the old lady and the mistresses have heard about it.
They say that while still a girl you were unchaste and intimate with your brother-in-law.
Youve picked someone nobody else wanted, they scold me.
Why not get rid of her and choose someone better.
Talk like that makes me furious.
Ive tried to find out who started this, but I cant.
If this goes on, how are we to hold up our heads in front of these slaves?
I seem to have landed myself in a foul mess.
Having said this a couple of times, she pretended to fall ill with anger, refusing to eat or drink.
All the maids and servants, with the exception of Pinger, kept gossiping, making sarcastic remarks, and casting aspersions at Second Sister.
As for Qiutong, having been given to Jia Lian by his father, she felt superior to everyone else including even Xifeng and Pinger, not to say a discarded wanton who had been Jia Lians mistress before she became his wife.
How can she take precedence of me!
she thought.
So she treated her with contempt.
Xifeng was secretly pleased at this, and Seccond Sister had to swallow her indignation.
As Xifeng was shamming sickness she stopped having her meals with Second Sister, just ordering the servants to take food to her room every day and the rice and dishes were always of the worst.
Pinger took pity on her.
She would spend her own money on extra dishes for her, or take her sometimes for a stroll in the Garden, getting special soups made for her in the kitchen there.
No one else dared report this to Xifeng but Qiutong, happening to find out, went to tell her.
Pingers spoiling your reputation, madam, she said.
The good dishes we have here are wasted on her she wont eat them.
Instead, she scrounges food in the Garden.
Xifeng swore at Pinger, Other peoples cats catch mice for them, but mine just steals my chickens!
Pinger did not venture to talk back.
After that she had to keep at a distance from Second Sister, and she bore Qiutong a grudge but could not speak out.
Li Wan, Yingchun and Xichun in the Garden thought Xifeng was uncommonly good to Second Sister.
Others like Baoyu and Daiyu were worried for her, but did not like to meddle in their affairs.
Second Sister looked so pathetic when she called that they sympathized with her, and when they were talking alone she would shed tears, but she never breathed a word against Xifeng who had shown her nothing of her vicious side.
When Jia Lian came home and observed Xifengs irreproachable behaviour to Second Sister, he did not give the matter a second thought.
Besides, he had long had designs on many of his fathers concubines and young maids, including Qiutong, who for their part were disgusted because their senile old master, still lecherous, was virtually impotent.
Why, then, should he keep them all there?
So apart from a few with some sense of propriety, the rest played about with the pages at the inner gate or even made eyes at Jia Lian, who was only too ready to flirt with them but for fear of his father dared go no further than that.
Although Qiutong had been interested in Jia Lian, they had never had an affair.
Now that as luck would have it she had being given to him, it was truly like throwing a dry faggot on a blazing fire.
They clung to each other like glue, Jia Lian so enamoured of his new concubine that he never left her side.
Little by little his affection for Second Sister lessened.
Qiutong was the only one he cared for.
Xifeng, though hating Qiutong, was eager to use her first to rid herself of Second Sister by Killing with a borrowed sword and Watching from a hilltop while two tigers fought.
For once Qiutong had killed Second Sister, she could do this new concubine in.
Her mind made up, when they were alone she often advised Qiutong Youre young and inexperienced.
Shes now the second mistress, your masters favourite.
Even I have to yield to her to some extent, yet you keep provoking her.
Youre just looking for trouble.
Inflamed by such talk.
Qiutong took to cursing and storming every day, The mistress is too soft and weak I havent that kind of forbearance.
Whats happened to her?
She used to be such a terror.
Well, the mistress may be broad-minded, but Im not going to put up with a mote in my eye.
Just let me have it out with that bitch then shell see!
Xifeng in her room pretended to be too frightened to say a word.
Second Sister in her room wept for rage and could not eat, but she dared not tell Jia Lian.
And the next day when the Lady Dowager asked why her eyes were so red and swollen.
She dared not explain.
Qiutong seized every chance to score off her.
She secretly told the old lady and Lady Wang, She keeps making trouble, complaining and whining all day for no reason at all, besides cursing madam and me behind our backs.
She hopes well both die early, so that she can live with Second Master and do just as she pleases.
Imagine!
exclaimed the old lady.
When a girls too pretty, she is bound to be jealous.
Xifengs been kind to her all along, yet she repays her by treating her like a rival!
This shows shes a worthless creature.
Little by little she took a dislike to Second Sister.
And when the others saw that she had lost favour with the old lady, they naturally bullied her too.
Second Sister was in such a miserable dilemma, she could neither die nor live.
Pinger was the only one who tried, behind Xifengs back, to help her and divert her mind from her troubles.
How could Second Sister, fragile as snow, delicate as a flower, stand up to such cruel treatment?
After suppressing her anger for just a month, she fall ill and lost her appetite.
Too listless to move, she grew daily thinner and paler.
One night when she closed her eyes, she saw her younger sister approaching, the duck-and-drake swords in her hands.
Youve always been too naive and soft-hearted, Third Sister told her, Thats why youre in trouble now.
Dont trust that shrews honeyed talk or her show of being such a virtuous wife at heart shes crafty and cruel.
Shes made up her mind to kill you.
If Id been alive, Id never have let you move into their house even if you had, Id not let her treat you like this.
Still, we brought this on ourselves by our worthless lives and wanton ways, corrupting men and upsetting family relations.
So this is just retribution.
Now take my advice and kill that shrew with this sword, then go together to the Goddess of Disenchantment for her to decide the case.
Otherwise you will die in vain and no one will pity you.
Second Sister sobbed, Ive already got a bad name, sister.
As I deserve my present fate, why should I add to my crimes by killing her?
Let me just put up with it.
If Heaven takes pity on me, I may recover.
Wouldnt that be better?
Still so naive, sister?
the other scoffed.
No one, since time immemorial, has escaped Heavens far-flung net.
The Way of Providence is retribution.
Although youve repented and mended your ways, youve already made father, son and cousins guilty of incest so how can Providence allow you to live at peace?
If I cant live at peace, thats only just, said Second Sister tearfully.
I bear no resentment.
Hearing this, Third Sister heaved a long sigh and withdrew.
Second Sister woke with a start to find it was only a dream.
When Jia Lian came to see her, as no one else was about she told him with tears, I shant get over this illness.
Ive been with you for half a year and Im with child, but dont know whether it will be a boy or a girl.
If Heaven has pity and the child is born, well and good.
Otherwise, I shant be able to save myself, let alone the child.
Dont you worry, Jia Lian, in tears himself, reassured her.
Ill get a good doctor for you.
He immediately went out to send for the doctor.
However, Doctor Wang was busy maneuvering to get a post in the army in order to acquire a noble title for his offspring.
In his absence the servants fetched Doctor Hu Junrong.
His diagnosis was that her menstruation was irregular and some tonic would set her right.
When Jia Lian told him that she had missed three periods and was often sick, so it looked like a pregnancy, Hu Junrong asked the serving-women to show him the ladys hand, and Second Sister stretched our her hand from behind the curtains.
After feeling the pulse for some time he declared If it were a pregnancy, the liver humour should be strong.
But the wood is in the ascendant, and that engenders the fire element which causes irregular menstruation.
May I make so bold as to ask to have a glimpse of the ladys face, so that I can see how she looks before venturing to make out a prescription.
Jia Lian had to order the curtain to be raised.
But the sight of Second Sister robbed Hu Junrong of his senses.
He was too dazed to know what he was doing.
Then the curtain was lowered and Jia Lian escorted him out.
Asked what the trouble was he said Its not a pregnancy, just congestion of the blood.
To make her periods normal, we must get rid of the congestion.
He then wrote a prescription and took his leave.
Jia Lian ordered servants to send over the doctors fee and buy and prepare the medicine for the patient.
In the middle of the night, Second Sister had such a pain in her stomach that she miscarried the foetus was male and bled so copiously that she fainted.
Jia Lian hearing this cursed Hu Junrong and had another doctor fetched at once.
He also sent men to go and beat up Hu but the latter heard of this in time to bundle together his things and run away.
The newly summoned doctor said, She had a weak constitution to begin with, and after conceiving she seems to have been bottling up some resentment.
That other gentleman made the mistake of using potent drugs which have undermined the ladys health completely.
We cannot look for a speedy recovery.
She will have to take both potions and pills, and must pay no attention to any malicious gossip then we can only hope she may get well.
This said, he left.
In a frenzy, Jia Lian asked who it was that had fetched that fellow Hu and had the man beaten within an inch of his life.
Xifeng showing ten times more anxiety exclaimed, We seem fated to have no son!
After going to such trouble to beget one, we come up against this bungling quack.
She offered incense and kowtowed to Heaven and Earth, praying earnestly, Let me fall ill if only Sister You can recover, conceive again and give birth to a boy.
Then Ill gladly fast and chant sutras for the rest of my life.
Jia Lian and the others, seeing this, could not but praise her.
While Jia Lian stayed with Qiutong, Xifeng prepared soup and broth for the invalid.
She also berated Pinger, Youre just as luckless as me with my illness, because youre not ill, just barren!
It must be our bad luck thats brought the Second Mistress to this pass or may be someones horoscope clashes with hers.
Thereupon she sent out to consult fortune-tellers, who returned the reply that the trouble had been caused by a woman born in the year of the rabbit.
They checked, and as Qiutong was the only one in their household born in that year they laid the blame at her door.
Qiutongs jealousy had already been aroused by the care Jia Lian lavished on Second Sister, fetching doctors, giving her medicine, and having the servant who had blundered beater.
Now she was told that she was the one to blame, and Xifeng advised her to move out for a few months and make herself scarce.
Qiutong wept and stormed, Whats all this senseless talk from that blind rascal?
I kept clear of her as well water and river water.
How could my horoscope clash with hers?
She had all sorts of contacts outside, the slut.
Why does the jinx have to be found here?
Which of all those fine fellows she knew got her with child?
Its only this credulous master of ours whos taken in by her.
Even if she had a child, we wouldnt know whether its name should be Zhang or Wang.
You may treasure her bastard, madam, but not I!
Who cant have a child?
If 1 have one a year or so from now, at least therell be no doubt who fathered it.
The maids were amused by this tirade but dared not laugh outright.
And just then Lady Xing called.
Qiutong told her, The Second Master and Second Mistress want to throw me out.
Ive nowhere to go.
Please take pity on me, madam!
Lady Xing first scolded Xifeng, then said sternly to Jia Lian You ungrateful cur!
Whatever her faults, she was given you by your father.
How can you throw her out for the sake of a woman you brought in from outside?
Have you no respect for your father?
If you want to get rid of her, you can at least return her to him.
She then left in a temper.
Emboldened by this, Qiutong went to Second Sisters window to scream abuse at her, making her feel even more wretched.
Jia Lian spent that night in Qiutongs room.
And after Xifeng had gone to bed Pinger slipped in to see Second Sister and comfort her, advising her to rest well and not trouble about that bitch.
Second Sister took her hand and said through tears, How good youve been to me, sister, since I came here!
Youve suffered a lot too on my account.
If I come out of this alive, Ill repay your kindness.
Im afraid Im done for, though, and can only pay you back in my next life.
Pinger was reduced to tears too.
It was all my fault, she confessed.
I was too naive.
I never kept anything from her, so when I heard of your marriage outside I felt I had to tell her.
I had no idea such trouble would come of it.
No, youre wrong, protested Second Sister.
If you hadnt told, shed have found out anyway.
You just happened to tell her first.
At any rate, I wanted to move in for appearances sake.
So youre in no way to blame.
They both wept again and presently, after a few more words of advice, Pinger saw that it was late and went back to rest.
Left to herself Second Sister thought, Im so ill, and getting worse every day, I see no hope of recovery.
And now that Ive miscarried and havent the child to worry about, why should I go on putting up with such taunts?
Better die and be done with it!
They say swallowing gold will kill you.
Wouldnt that be a cleaner death than hanging myself or cutting my own throat?
She struggled out of bed and opened her case, from which she took a piece of gold of a fair size.
Weeping and cursing her fate, she put it in her mouth and after several desperate attempts succeeded in swallowing it.
Then she hastily dressed herself neatly and put on her trinkets, after which she lay down on the kang.
Not a soul had any suspicion of what she had done.
The next morning when she failed to call for her maids, they attended cheerfully to their own toilets while Xifeng and Qiutong went off to pay their respects to the senior mistresses.
Pinger was shocked by this and scolded the maids, Dont be so heartless!
You only obey harsh people who beat or curse you and thats the treatment you deserve.
Have you no pity at all for someone so ill?
You might at least behave decently, instead of taking advantage of her good nature and kicking her when shes down.
The maids opened Second Sisters door then.
At sight of her lying neatly dressed dead on her bed, they screamed with fright.
Pinger running in wept bitterly when she saw this.
And the maids, remembering now how gentle Second Sister had been and how much kinder to them than Xifeng, shed tears over her death as well, but took care to hide their grief from their dreaded mistress.
The news spread at once through the whole mansion.
Jia Lian came in, clasped the corpse and wept without stop.
Xifeng put on a show of sobbing, How cruel of you, sister, to leave me alone like this!
What a poor return for my kindness!
Madam You and Jia Rong also came to mourn and console Jia Lian.
Then he reported the matter to Lady Wang, and obtained permission to leave the corpse for five days in Pear Fragrance Court before its removal to Iron Threshold Temple.
Hasty orders were given to have the court gate opened and the three main rooms cleared for the coffins resting place.
Since it would be unbecoming to carry the bier through the back gate, Jia Lian had a new gate leading to the street made through the main wall facing Pear Fragrance Court booths were set up on either side of this and an altar was erected for Buddhist masses.
And there Second Sister was carried on a soft couch with a silken mattress and a coverlet shrouding her body.
Eight pages and a few matrons escorted the bier from the inner wall to Pear Fragrance Court, where they had an astrologer waiting.
When Jia Lian lifted the coverlet and saw Second Sister lying there as if alive, yet even lovelier than in life, he threw his arms around her.
Wife, your death is a mystery, he wailed.
But I brought it on you.
Jia Rong hastily stepped forward to console him.
Dont give way to such grief, uncle.
This aunt of mine was ill-starred.
As he spoke he pointed south at the wall of Grand View Garden.
Jia Lian caught his meaning and softly stamped his foot.
Yes, I know.
I shall get to the bottom of it and avenge you!
The astrologer reported that as the lady had died at five in the morning she could not be carried to the temple on the fifth, but the third or the seventh would be appropriate, and the body should be coffined at three the next morning an auspicious hour.
The third wont do, said Jia Lian.
Well make it the seventh.
As my uncle and cousin are away, we mustnt leave her here too long as this is a minor funeral.
After the coffin has been placed in the temple for five weeks, well have a big mass and then close the mourning shrine.
Next year it can be taken south for burial.
The astrologer approved this and left after writing out the obituary.
Baoyu had already come to mourn, and now other members of the clan arrived.
Jia Lian hurried back then to ask Xifeng for money for the coffin and funeral rites.
Meanwhile, after seeing the body carried away, Xifeng had shammed illness again and claimed that Their Ladyships would not let her attend any ceremonies while unwell.
She did not put on mourning either.
Going instead to the Garden, past the rockeries to the wall at the north end, she eavesdropped on her husband outside, then came back to report the few remarks she had caught to the Lady Dowager.
Dont listen to his nonsense, said the old lady, Girls who die of consumption are cremated, arent they, and their ashes scattered?
Why should she have a formal funeral and burial?
Still, as she was a secondary wife, let her body be kept for five weeks in the temple before being carried out to be burnt or buried in some common graveyard.
Xifeng smiled.
Thats exactly what I think, but I dare not urge him to do that.
A maid came then to ask Xifeng to go back as Jia Lian had gone home to get some money from her, and so she had to return.
What money do we have?
she asked him.
Dont you know how tight things have been here recently?
We couldnt distribute each months allowance on time.
Its been like hens eating up next years grain.
Yesterday I pawned a gold necklace for three hundred taels, and that may have given you ideas but now only about two dozen taels are left.
If you want that you can have it.
She told Pinger to fetch this and gave it to Jia Lian, then went off again on the excuse that the old lady wanted her.
Jia Lian swallowing his resentment had to resort to opening Second Sisters cases to look for any savings but all he found were some broken trinkets, soiled artificial flowers and some of her half worn silk clothes, the sight of which reduced him to tears again.
He wrapped them up in a cloth and, not asking the maids or pages to carry the bundle, started out to burn it himself.
Pinger, both touched and amused, filched a packet of loose silver about two hundred taels and going to the eastern rooms gave him this, warning him to keep it a secret.
If you must cry, cant you cry as much as you want outside?
she scolded him.
Why do it here, attracting attention?
Youre right, said Jia Lian as he took the silver.
He then gave a skirt to Pinger saying, This is one she was fond of wearing.
Keep it for me as a memento.
Pinger accepted it and put it away.
Having taken the silver, Jia Lian came out with some others and ordered men to buy wood for the coffin.
The best timber was expensive, but nothing inferior would satisfy him so he mounted his horse and went to make the choice himself.
By evening some good timber had been delivered as it cost five hundred taels, he had to buy it on credit.
He had the coffin made immediately, at the same time assigning mourners to keep vigil, and he did not go home that night, but watched by the coffin.
What happened later is recorded in the next chapter.
Chapter 70 Daiyu Starts Another Poetry Club Peach-Blossom Society Xiangyun Dashes Off a Poem on Willow Catkins Jia Lian attended the funeral ceremonies at Pear Fragrance Court for seven days and seven nights, during which monks and priests chanted sutras.
Then the Lady Dowager summoned him and forbade him to send the coffin to the family temple, so all he could do was choose a spot near Third Sisters grave and arrange with of the temple to have Second Sister buried there.
Only members of the clan, Wang Xin and his wife, Madam You and her daughter-in-law were present at the interment.
Xifeng did not lift a finger to help, leaving Jia Lian to manage everything himself.
New Year was now approaching and, on top of the host of things that had to be seen to, Lin Zhixiao brought a list of eight men-servants who had reached the age of twenty-five and not yet married, to ask whether there were any maids due to leave who would make them suitable wives.
Xifeng having read the list went to consult the old lady and Lady Wang, but although there were several maids in that category they found objections in the case of each.
First, Yuanyang since vowing never to leave their service had neither spoken to Baoyu nor put on fine clothes or make up and in view of her determination, they could hardly force her to marry.
Then Hupo was disqualified by illness.
And Caiyun, since breaking with ha Huan recently, had also contracted some unknown disease.
Apart from them, only the older maid-servants doing rough work for Xifeng and Li Wan were due to leave.
The others were too young.
So the men had to look for wives outside.
While Xifeng was unwell, Li Wan and Tanchun had been too occupied with domestic affairs to have time for anything else and what with celebrating New Year and the Lantern Festival and miscellaneous business, the poetry club had been forgotten.
Now, although there was a lull and it was midspring, a whole series of misfortunes Baoyus loss of his friend Liu Xianglian, the suicides of Third Sister and Second Sister, and Liu Wuers illness brought on by mortification had reduced Baoyu to such a state of dejection that he appeared dazed and often raved like a madman.
Xiren and his other maids were alarmed but not daring to report this to the old lady they just did their best in every way to divert him.
One morning, as soon as he woke he heard giggling and muffled cries from the outer room.
Go and rescue her, quick!
said Xiren with a smile.
Qingwen and Sheyue have pinned Venturina down and are ticking her.
Baoyu draped his squirrel-fur jacket over his shoulders and went out to have a look.
The three girls had not folded their quilts or put on their outer clothes.
Qingwen in a leek- green silk bodice, red silk pants and red slippers, her hair tousled, was sitting astride Fangguan who was being tickled in the ribs by Sheyue in a red silk chemise, an old jacket over her shoulders.
Fangguan lying on her back in a flowered bodice, red pants and green socks was thrashing her legs wildly, quite out of breath from laughing.
Two big girls bullying one small one!
chuckled Baoyu.
Ive come to the rescue.
He climbed on to the kang to tickle Qingwen in the ribs.
Being ticklish, she at once let go of Fangguan to grab him and Fangguan seized this chance to pull her down and tickle her under the armpits.
Mind you dont catch cold!
warned Xiren, amused to see the four of them scuffling together.
Just then Li Wans maid Biyue came in.
Last night my mistress left a handkerchief somewhere, she announced.
Is it here?
Xiaoyan answered, Yes, it is.
I picked it up from the floor and didnt know whose it was.
Ive just washed it and hung it out.
Its not quite dry yet.
Biyue smiled at sight of the scrimmage on the kang.
Youre lively here, she remarked, starting your horseplay so early in the morning.
Dont you play about in your place too?
asked Baoyu.
There are plenty of you there.
Our mistress is so serious that her two cousins and Miss Baoqin hold themselves in check as well.
And now that Miss Baoqins moved in with the old lady were even quieter.
By winter next year, when her cousins will have gone, it will be still quieter.
Didnt you notice how lonely Miss Baochais place seemed after Xiangling went home, leaving Miss Xiangyun all on her own?
Even as she was speaking, in came Cuilu sent by Xiangyun to invite Baoyu over to read a fine poem.
Asked where this good poem was, she said The young ladies are all at Seeping Fragrance Pavilion.
Go and see for yourself, young master.
Baoyu hastily washed, dressed and left.
Sure enough he found Daiyu, Baochai, Xiangyun, Baoqin and Tanchun all there reading a poem.
Why are you so late up?
they demanded.
For a year our poetry clubs been broken up and no ones called it together again.
Now its early spring, a fresh start for all living things and high time to bestir ourselves to get it going again.
We started the club in autumn, added Xiangyun.
Thats why it didnt prosper.
If we start it again now in spring when everything burgeons, its bound to come to life.
And this poem on peach-blossom is so good, why not change our Begonia Club into Peach-Blossom Club?
Baoyu nodded approvingly and asked to read the poem.
But the others proposed, Lets go and find the Old Peasant of Sweet Paddy, to talk it over together and get things going.
With that they all got up and set off for Paddy-Sweet Cottage, Baoyu reading the poem on the way.
It was as follows -740 PEACH-BLOSSOM Outside the blind, peach-blossom, a soft spring breeze Within, a girl is languidly dressing her hair.
Outside, the peach-blossom within the girl Not far apart the blossom and maid so fair.
Obligingly, the breeze blows back the blind And holds it to afford a glimpse of her bower Outside, the peach is blooming as of old, Frailer the girl within than any flower.
The flowers, knowing pity, grieve for her Their sighs gentle breezes express Breeze wafts through bamboo slats, blooms fill the court, But this spring scene redoubles her distress.
The gate of the quiet, mossy courtyard is closed, At sunset she leans alone on the balustrade Then, shedding tears in the soothing breeze, Neath blossoming boughs slips the red-skirted maid.
Luxuriant the foliage and blooms With petals a fresh red, leaves emerald green These myriad trees enwrapped in mist Cast a rosy glow, as if of warmth, on her screen.
Duck-and-drake brocade from heavens loom is burned, While on coral pillow she wakes in balmy spring But chill to the touch of rouged cheeks, Sweet spring water in golden basins her maids bring.
To what can the vividness of rouge be likened?
The colour of flowers?
A girls tears dropping slow?
If tears are likened to blossom, Long as the blooms retain their charm they flow.
As she gazes at the blossom her tears run dry Her tears run dry, spring ends, blooms fade away The fading blossoms hide the fading maid Blossoms drift down, she tires, dusk follows day.
A cuckoo-call and spring is left behind, Only faint moonlight falls on the lonely blind.
Baoyu instead of praising this poem shed tears, for he knew it must be by Daiyu.
But not wanting the girls to see how moved he was, he hastily wiped his eyes.
Where did you get this?
he asked.
Guess who wrote it, challenged Baoqin.
The Queen of the Bamboos, of course.
No, she didnt, giggled Baoqin.
I did.
I dont believe it.
The style and spirit are definitely not yours.
That just shows how little you know, put in Baochai.
Were all Tu Dus lines like clustered chrysanthemums have flowered twice in tears for other days?
He has other exquisite lines like Plums steeped in rain will wax crimson in days to come and The waterweed in the breeze trails long emerald belts.
Even so, Baoyu retorted, I know youd never let your cousin write such sad lines.
And even if she had the talent, she wouldnt want to.
Cousin Daiyu is different.
Shes known such grief that she writes mournful lines.
All laughing, they now reached Paddy-Sweet Cottage where they showed Daiyus poem to Li Wan, who was of course loud in her praise.
Then they discussed the poetry club and decided to start it the following day, the second of the third month, and to change its name from Begonia Club to Peach-Blossom Society, electing Daiyu as its president.
The next day after breakfast they all gathered in Bamboo Lodge.
When the question arose of a subject for the first poem, Daiyu suggested that each of them should write a hundred rhyming couplets on peach-blossom.
That wont do, objected Baochai.
There have been so many poems since ancient times on peach-blossom, if we did that wed be bound to produce something stereotyped, not to be compared with your poem.
We must think of a different subject.
Just then the arrival of Lady Wangs sister-in-law was announced and they all had to go to the mansion to pay their respects.
They chatted with Wang Zitengs wife, and after lunch showed her round the Garden.
Not till after dinner when the lamps were lit did she take her leave.
The day after that was Tanchuns birthday.
Yuanchun sent two young eunuchs to present her with a few curios, and she received gifts which need not be enumerated from the rest of the family.
After breakfast she changed into ceremonial costume and went to the different apartments to pay her respects.
Daiyu observed laughingly, I picked the wrong day again to start this club, forgetting that wed be celebrating her birthday for the next two days.
Though there wont be feasts and operas, well all have to go with her to spend the day amusing Their Ladyships, and that wont leave us any spare time.
So the date was changed to the fifth.
That day, however, while the girls were waiting upon the old lady and Lady Wang at breakfast, a letter arrived from Jia Zheng.
After paying his respects Baoyu asked his grandmothers permission to open it and read it to her.
Apart from the usual greetings, the letter said that Jia Zheng would definitely be back by the middle of the sixth month.
Another letter on family affairs was opened and read by Jia Lian and Lady Wang.
The news of ha Zhengs impending return by the sixth or seventh month threw them all into a flurry of excitement.
On this same day, too, they heard that Wang Ziteng had arranged to marry his daughter to the son of Marquis Baoning on the tenth of the fifth month.
Xifeng hastened to offer her services, and this took her away from home for days at a time.
Then Wang Zitengs wife came to invite Xifeng and the young people for a days pleasure, and the Lady Dowager and Lady Wang told Baoyu, Tanchun, Daiyu and Baochai to accompany Xifeng.
Not daring to refuse, they had to go back to dress in formal costumes and then went out for the whole day, not returning till the evening.
Baoyu, back in Happy Red Court, took a short rest.
And Xiren seized this chance to advise him to avoid distractions in future and spend his spare time revising the classics, ready for his fathers return.
Baoyu reckoned on his fingers.
Theres still plenty of time, he expostulated.
Readings one thing, and theres writing too, she replied.
You may have read whats required, but how about your calligraphy exercises?
Ive done quite a few.
Havent they been kept?
Of course.
When you were out yesterday I got them out and counted them there are only fifty to sixty sheets.
Surely you should have written more than that in the last three or four years?
I suggest that, starting tomorrow, youd better put aside all other business and concentrate on writing a few sheets every day to make up.
Then even if you havent a sheet to show for each day, youll have done enough to pass muster.
Baoyu at once counted the sheets himself and found he had really procrastinated too long.
From tomorrow on Ill write a hundred characters a day, he promised, after which they turned in for the night.
The next day as soon as he was dressed, he sat down by the window to grind ink and practise writing in real earnest, instead of going straight to his grandmother.
Thinking he must be unwell she sent maids to make inquiries, whereupon he went over to pay his respects and explain that he was late because he had been practising calligraphy since first thing that morning.
The old lady was very gratified to hear this.
As long as youre writing or studying, you neednt come here, she said.
You tell your mother that.
Baoyu did so.
Its no use sharpening your spear just before a battle, warned Lady Wang.
If youd done some reading and writing every day, youd have finished all thats expected and wouldnt feel so frantic.
if you go at it too hard now you may fall ill again No, Ill be all right, he assured her.
The old lady also expressed the fear that he might overwork and ruin his health.
Dont you worry, madam, said Baochai and Tanchun.
His reading we cant do for him, but writing we can.
Well each copy out one sheet for him every day to get him out of this fix then His Lordship wont be angry when he comes home, and Baoyu wont fret himself ill.
The old lady was delighted with this idea.
When Daiyu heard that Jia Zheng was coming home, she knew he would certainly check on his sons studies and was afraid Baoyu would get into trouble.
So she pretended to have lost interest in re-starting the poetry society, in order not to distract him.
Tanchun and Baochai each day neatly copied out a sheet of characters in the orthographic script for Baoyu, while he himself put on a spurt and wrote two or three hundred characters a day.
In this way, by the end of the third month, he had amassed quite a number of exercises.
He reckoned that with another fifty sheets he could get by.
Then to his surprise Zijuan came to give him a rolled-up package.
When he opened it he found a number of sheets of old bamboo paper filled with small characters modelled on those of Zhong You and Wang Xizhi, exactly as he would have written them himself.
Baoyu joyfully bowed his thanks to Zijuan, and went over in person to thank Daiyu.
Xiangyun and Baoqin also copied out some sheets for him.
So altogether, althought less than was strictly required, he had about enough.
And once this was off his mind, Baoyu started reading the classics he had been set.
But it so happened that at this time some coastal regions were devastated by tidal waves and the local officials reported this to the court, whereupon the Emperor decreed that Jia Zheng on his way back should inspect these areas and supervise relief work.
This meant that he would not be home till the end of winter.
When Baoyu heard this, he put aside his books and calligraphy exercises and started amusing himself again as before.
It was then the end of spring.
Xiangyun, feeling listless one day, watched the swaying willow catkins and then dashed off the following short poem to the melody Rumengling -763 Boughs with silk floss entwined Or sweet mist glimpsed through a half rolled-up blind?
As slender fingers with the catkins play, Cuckoo and swallow cry out in dismay Stop, pray!
Do stay!
Dont let spring steal away.
Feeling rather pleased with this verse she wrote it down and showed it to Baochai, then went to find Daiyu.
Daiyu read it and pronounced, Good.
Its fresh and original.
I cant write in this way myself.
Our poetry club has never tried writing irregular metres, said Xiangyun.
Why dont you call a meeting tomorrow to do that?
Wouldnt that make a change?
Intrigued by this suggestion Daiyu cried, Of course!
Thats a wonderful idea.
Ill send out invitations right away.
She gave orders for refreshments to be prepared, then sent her maids out to invite the others while she and Xiangyun fixed on willow catkins as the subject and on the different melodies to be used.
They fastened a notice to this effect on the wall.
When the others arrived they read first this notice and then Xiangyuns poem, which they praised.
Baoyu said Im no good at irregular metres.
Still, I shall have to write some sort of nonsense.
They drew lots for the different metres and Baochai got Linjiangxian Baoqin, Xijiangyue Tanchun, Nankezi Daiyu, Tan tuoling and Baoyu, Dielianhua.
Zijuan lighted a stick of Sweet-Dream Incense then and they started.
Very soon Daiyu had finished and written her verse out.
Then Baoqin and Baochai completed theirs.
They looked at each others poem.
Baochai said with a smile, Let me see yours first, and then you can see mine.
How come the incense is burning so fast today?
exclaimed Tanchun.
Theres only one third left, yet Ive just made up half.
She asked Baoyu, How about you?
Baoyu did not think what he had written was any good, so he crossed it out meaning to start again, then looking round saw that the incense was nearly burnt up.
The others laughed.
Baoyus lost again, said Li Wan.
Youd better write out the half youve done, Tanchun.
Tanchun did so.
Her lines to the melody Nankezi were only half completed -763 In vain the willow trails long slender branches, Hanging strands of silk are they They cannot curb the catkins And north, south, east and west these drift away.
Li Wan said, That sounds easy.
Why not finish it?
Seeing that the incense was already burnt out, Baoyu preferred to admit defeat rather than writing something inferior.
He put down his brush to read Tanchuns unfinished poem, and this gave him the idea for the following conclusion which he wrote -763 Do not mourn their falling Where they fly, only I have any idea Orioles grieve, butterflies flag as flowers fade, But next spring, another year past, they will reappear.
The others teased, You didnt do your own assignment, so even if youve finished this off well it doesnt count.
Then they read Daiyus poem to the melody Tangduoling -763 Pink petals fall in Hundred Flowers Islet.
By Swallow Tower their fragrance slowly fades Catkins following in clusters float off like ill-fated maids Vain their close attachment and beauty.
The willow too knows what it is to yearn In early prime her head turns white, She laments her life but has no one to whom to turn.
The spring breeze to whom she is wedded no pity will show, Leaving it to chance whether to stay or go.
As they read this they nodded and exclaimed, Too sad!
But of course its good.
Next they read Baoqins verse to the melody Xijiangyue -763 Few and far between in the Han garden, They make the whole Sui Dyke gleam!
Their spring splendour gone with the wind, Moonlight and plum-blossom nothing but a dream.
Here and there in the courtyard crimson petals fall Beside whose curtain snow down these fragrant flakes?
North and south of the Great River it is the same, The heart of every parted lover aches.
The others commented with a smile, This is really in a tragic vein.
The fifth and sixth lines are the best.
Still its too mournful, objected Baochai.
Willow catkins may be light and fickle, yet it seems to me, to be original, we should praise whats good about them.
Thats what Ive done, but you may not approve.
Dont be so modest, said the rest.
Yours is bound to be good, so lets hear it.
Then they read her verse to the melody Linjiangxian -763 Dancing at ease in spring before white jade halls, Swirling gracefully in the spring breeze Thats the best line yet!
cried Xiangyun.
Swirling gracefully in the spring breeze.
-1527 While whirling all around me Are butterflies and bees.
I have never followed the flowing stream, Why then should I abandon myself to the dust?
Constant to ten thousand boughs, Whether together or parted I keep trust.
Do not jeer at me as rootless, But lend me strength, good wind, To soar up to the azure sky at last.
-386 The others clapped the table and exclaimed with admiration.
Theres real strength in this, they said.
Its the best of the lot.
Less tender and poignant, though, than the Queen of Bamboos poem and Pillowed Iridescences has charm and feeling.
Today Little Xue and the Stranger Under the Plantain have fallen behind.
Theyll have to be penalized.
Well accept any penalty, cried Baoqin gaily.
But how will you punish the one who handed in a blank paper?
Just wait, said Li Wan.
Well deal with him strictly, you can be sure of that, to make an example of him.
As she was speaking something crashed against the bamboo outside -- it sounded as if a window had fallen out.
They all jumped with fright and maids ran out to investigate.
One of the girls outside called, A big butterfly kites got entangled in the bamboo.
What a fine kite, remarked the other maids.
Whose can it be?
Its string has snapped.
Lets get it down.
Hearing this Baoyu and the others went out to look.
I know this kite, said Baoyu.
It belongs to Yanhong in the other house.
Fetch it down and send it back to her.
Is there only one kite like this in the world?
objected Zijuan.
How can you be sure its hers?
I dont care if it is, Im going to keep it.
Dont be so greedy, Zijuan, scolded Tanchun.
Youve kites of your own, so why filch somebody elses?
That may bring you bad luck.
Quite right, agreed Daiyu.
Someone may have set it adrift to float away evil influences.
Get rid of it, quick.
And lets loose ours too to send away our bad luck.
Then Zijuan told some younger maids to take the kite to the women on duty at the gate, who should give it to anyone who came asking for it.
When the younger maids heard they were going to fly kites, they hurried off eagerly to fetch a kite in the form of a beautiful girl, as well as high stools, cords and reels, and a pole with a stick tied to its top for launching the kite.
Baochai and the others standing by the gate, ordered the maids to fly this on the open ground outside.
Baoqin remarked, This of yours isnt as handsome as Cousin Tanchuns big phoenix with flapping wings.
Baoyu agreed and turned to tell Cuimo to fetch it, where upon she went off cheerfully on this errand.
Baoyu, in high spirits, sent a young maid home with the instructions, Fetch that big fish kite Mrs. Lai brought us yesterday.
After a long interval the maid came back empty-handed.
Qingwen flew it yesterday and lost it, she announced.
And I hadnt flown it even once!
exclaimed Baoyu.
Never mind.
said Tanchun.
She sent off your bad luck for you.
In that case bring the big crab kite, ordered Baoyu.
The maid came back presently with a few others carrying a beauty kite and reel.
Miss Xiren says yesterday she gave the crab kite to Master Huan, she told him.
Heres one just brought by Mrs. Lin.
She suggests you fly this instead.
Baoyu examined the kite and was pleased to find it exquisitely made, He told them to fly it.
By now Tanchuns kite had come too, and Cuimo and some other maids were already flying it above a nearby slope.
Baoqin told her maids to fly a big red bat kite.
Baochai, infected by the general enthusiasm, had sent up a lite in the shape of a formation of seven wild swans.
Now all these kites were airborne except Baoyus beauty, making him so frantic that sweat poured down his face.
When the others laughed at him, he angrily threw the kite to the ground and pointing at it swore If you werent a beauty, Id trample you to bits!
Its the fault of the bridle, said Daiyu soothingly.
If you adjust it, itll be all right.
Baoyu ordered this to be done and at the same time sent for another kite.
They were all looking up and watching the kites sail through the air when the maids brought many others of different kinds and played with them for a while.
Then Zijuan exclaimed, Its pulling hard now, miss.
Wont you take over?
Daiyu wrapped a handkerchief round her hand and pulled.
Sure enough, the wind was blowing hard.
She took the reel and paid out the cord.
As the kite soared off, the reel whirred and all of a sudden the whole cord had run out.
Then she urged the rest to let their kites drift away.
Were all ready, they said.
You start first.
Though its fun to let it go, I havent the heart to.
she replied with a smile.
Kite-flying is just for fun, thats why we call it sending off bad luck, said Li Wan.
You should do this more often, and then you might get rid of that illness of yours.
Wouldnt that be a good thing?
Our young ladys getting more and more stingy, put in Zijuan.
We always sent off a few kites every year, so why begrudge one today?
If you wont do it, miss, I will.
She took from Xueyan a pair of small silver Western scissors, and clipped the cord tied to the reel.
There!
she said with a laugh.
Thatll carry off her illness.
The kite drifted away until soon it seemed no bigger than an egg, then it dwindled to a speck like a black star and the next minute vanished from sight.
Watching with screwed-up eyes they cried, What fun!
Its a pity we dont know where itll land, observed Baoyu.
Lets hope it falls somewhere with people about and gets picked up by some children.
If it falls in the wilderness where nobody lives, how lonely it will feel.
Id better send this one after it to keep it company.
He cut the cord of his kite and let it go too.
Tanchun was about to cut the cord of her phoenix kite when she saw another just like it in the sky.
Whose can that be?
she wondered.
The others advised, Dont cut yours loose yet.
That other kite seems to be approaching it.
Even as they spoke the two phoenixes converged, their cords becoming entangled.
They tried to pull Tanchuns back, but as the other side was pulling too, they could not disentangle them.
And just then another kite the size of a door, in the form of the character good-luck, came zooming over, the bells on it ringing.
This one will get entangled too, they cried.
Dont pull yours back.
Let all three of them tangle together, that will be amusing.
This new kite did indeed get entangled with the two phoenixes.
The three kite-fliers tugged at their cords until these snapped and the three kites sailed away.
They clapped and laughed, then, crying.
What fun!
Whose could that good-luck kite be?
It played a dastardly trick.
My kites gone and Im tired, said Daiyu, Im going back to rest.
Just wait till weve sent off all our kites and then well go, said Baochai.
So they loosed their kites, then dispersed, Daiyu going back to her own apartments to rest.
To know what happened later, read the next chapter.
Chapter 71 Lady Xing Feeling Wronged Puts Xifeng in the Wrong Yuanyang Happens Upon Two Lovers Upon Jia Zhengs return to the capital, after all his business was despatched, he was granted a months home leave.
Growing old now and worn out by his heavy responsibilities, he was so happy after this long time away to be reunited with his family that banishing all thought of business he passed the time reading, and when he was tired would play chess or drink with his proteges or enjoy the domesticity of the inner quarters with his mother, sons and wife.
The second of the eighth month that year would be the old ladys eightieth birthday, and all their relatives and friends were bound to come to offer congratulations.
How were they to accommodate so many feasters?
Jia Zheng talked it over with ha She, Jia Zhen and ha Lian, and they decided to hold feasts from the twenty-eighth of the seventh month to the fifth of the eighth in both mansions, the Ning entertaining the men, the Rong the ladies.
Two of the larger buildings in Grand View Garden, Variegated Splendour Tower and Auspicious Shade Hall, could be prepared as retiring rooms.
On the twenty-eighth they would invite the prince consorts, princes, princesses and dukes of the Imperial House together with their ladies on the twenty-ninth, ministers, military governors and their titled wives on the thirtieth, other officials with their titled wives, and relatives close and distant with their wives.
Family feasts would be given on the first by Jia She, on the second by Jia Zheng, on the third by ha Zhen and ha Lian, on the fourth by the whole Jia family old and young.
Finally, on the fifth, Lai Da, Lin Zhixiao and the other chief stewards would give a feast.
From the start of the seventh month streams of messengers had been arriving with gifts.
The Ministry of Rites by Imperial decree presented the old lady with one gold and jade Ruyi sceptre, four lengths of coloured satin, four gold and jade ear-rings, and five hundred taels of silver from the Imperial Treasury.
The Imperial Consort Yuanchun sent eunuchs with a golden image of the God of Longevity, an eaglewood cane, a string of scented beads, a box of rare incense, one pair of gold and four of silver ingots, twelve lengths of coloured satin and four jade cups.
As for the gifts sent by all the princes and their consorts, as well as officials and officers high and low who had connections with the Jia family, these were too many to enumerate.
A large table covered with a red felt was set in the hall to display all the best gifts for the old ladys inspection.
The first two days she enjoyed examining them, but after that she lost interest.
Let Xifeng put them away, she said.
Ill look at them some other time when Ive nothing to do.
On the twenty-eighth, both mansions were hung with lanterns as decorations, phoenix screens were set up and lotus-patterned carpets spread, while the sound of fluting and drumming carried into the streets outside.
The only guests that day in the Ning Mansion were the Prince of Beijing, the Prince of Nanan, Prince Consort Yongchang, the Prince of Leshan and a few young nobles.
To the Rong Mansion came only the Dowager Princess of Nanan, the wife of the Prince of Beijing and a few other noble ladies.
The Lady Dowager and the rest received them in full court costume appropriate to their rank.
After greetings had been exchanged the guests were invited to Auspicious Shade Hall in the Garden to drink tea and freshen up, after which they went to the Hall of Glorious Celebration to offer their congratulations and sit down to a feast.
There was much polite deferring to each other before finally they sat down, the two princes consorts in the seats of honour, then the other ladies according to their rank.
The wives of the Marquis of Jinxiang and the Earl of Linchang sat at the lower table on the left.
The Lady Dowager, as hostess, took a lower seat on the right and Madam You, Xifeng and some other daughters-in-law, headed by Lady Xing and Lady Wang, ranged themselves behind her on both sides to wait on the guests.
Outside the bamboo portie matrons headed by the stewards wives Mrs. Lin and Mrs. Lai served the dishes and wine, while a few young maids supervised by Mrs. Zhou Rui stood behind the screens waiting for orders.
The servants who had come with the guests were entertained elsewhere.
Presently, actors came on the stage to offer congratulations, which signified that it was time for the performance to start.
At the foot of the stage stood twelve pages, still too young to let their hair grow.
One of these with both hands presented a list of the repertoire to the woman in charge at the bottom of the steps, who passed it to Mrs. Lin.
She laid it on a small tray and noiselessly raised the portiere, then sidled up to Madam Yous maid, the concubine Peifeng.
Peifeng presented it to Madam You, who carried it over to the two highest seats.
The mother of the Prince of Nanan after first declining this honour chose an auspicious item, then passed the list to the wife of the Prince of Beijing who after a show of modesty also selected one item.
The rest after some deferring to each other finally all said Let them sing whatever they think best.
When dishes had been served four times followed by soup, the servants who had accompanied their mistresses brought forward tips which were given to the performers, after which they all had a wash and returned to the Garden where fresh tea was served.
The mother of the Prince of Nanan, asking after Baoyu, was told by the Lady Dowager that he had gone to worship in one of the temples where monks were chanting sutras to pray for peace and longevity for her.
Then she asked after the girls.
Some of them are unwell, others are delicate, and theyre so shy in company that I told them to keep an eye on my rooms for me, said the old lady.
As we have plenty of actresses, Ive sent a troupe to perform in my hail, and theyre watching operas there with the girls in their aunts family.
In that case, do invite them over, urged the Dowager Princess.
The Lady Dowager turned to tell Xifeng, Go and fetch Xiangyun, Baochai, Baoqin and Daiyu, and ask Tanchun to come with them.
Xifeng assented and went off.
She found the girls eating sweetmeats and watching an opera in the old ladys place with Baoyu, just back from the temple.
When she passed on her instructions, Baochai, Baoqin, Daiyu, Tanchun and Xiangyun all went with her to the Garden where they were introduced and paid their respects.
Some of the visitors had met them before.
One or two had not, but all alike expressed their admiration.
The mother of the Prince of Nanan knew Xiangyun best.
When you heard I was here, why didnt you come out?
she teased.
Were you waiting for an invitation?
I shall take your uncle to task for this some time.
Next she took Tanchun and Baochai by the hand to ask them their age and exclaimed in delight, so impressed was she by them.
Then letting them go she drew Daiyu and Baoqin to her, subjected them to a close scrutiny and praised them in the highest terms.
Theyre all so charming, she said laughingly, I dont know which to praise most.
A servant had already brought in the five sets of presents prepared five gold and five jade rings and five bracelets of scented beads.
Dont laugh at these gifts, said the mother of the prince.
Take them to give to your maids.
The five girls curtseyed their thanks, and then the wife of the Prince of Beijing also gave each of them a set of presents.
There is no need to describe all the gifts presented them by the other guests.
After sipping tea the guests strolled for a while in the Garden.
Then the Lady Dowager asked them to go back to feast, but the mother of the Prince of Nanan declined.
Im not feeling well today, but I simply had to come, she said.
So please excuse me if I leave early.
The old lady and others could not press her to stay, and after a further exchange of civilities they saw her to the Garden gate, where she mounted her sedan-chair and left.
The wife of the Prince of Beijing stayed a little longer, then took her leave too.
Some of the others withdrew early, some stayed till the end.
As the Lady Dowager had had a tiring day, the next day she did not receive any guests, leaving Lady Xing and Lady Wang to entertain them for her.
The sons of noble families simply came to the outer hall to pay their respects, and were received by Jia She, Jia Zheng and Jia Zhen, who then took them off to feast in the Ning Mansion.
But no more of this.
During these celebrations, Madam You did not go home at night.
She spent each day entertaining guests, and stayed on in the evening to amuse the Lady Dowager and help Xifeng to supervise the disposal of the various utensils, the putting away of presents and tipping of servants, then retired for the night in Li Wans quarters in the Garden.
This evening after she had waited on the old lady during her meal, the latter said, You must all be tired, I know I am.
So eat early and go and rest.
Tomorrow you have to get up early again.
Madam You assented and withdrew to have dinner in Xifengs apartments but Xifeng was in the upstairs storeroom overlooking the servants putting away the tapestry screens presented while Pinger, alone in the room, put away Xifengs clothes.
Has your mistress had her meal?
asked Madam You.
Pinger smiled.
How could we omit to invite you, madam, if we were having a meal?
Well then, Ill go somewhere else to find something to eat.
Im ravenously hungry.
As she started off, Pinger called, Do come back, madam!
Here are some cakes for you to be going on with.
Then come for dinner later.
No, youre all so busy here, Ill go and cadge a meal from the girls in the Garden.
With that she left and Pinger could not detain her.
Madam You went straight to the Garden.
As she found its main gate and the side gates still open and coloured lanterns still hanging there, she ordered her maid to fetch the women on duty, but the girl came back to report that not even the shadow of anyone was to be found in the gatehouse.
Told to fetch the stewards wives in charge, she went to the corner house outside the inner gate where those women gathered to chat before work.
There she found only two matrons sharing out sweetmeats and dishes.
Are none of the stewards wives here?
she asked.
My mistress from the East Mansion wants one of them immediately.
The two matrons, intent on the food, hearing that it was a mistress from the other mansion answered casually Theyve just gone.
Well then, go to their homes and fetch them, urged the maid.
Were caretakers, not messengers.
If you want someone fetched, send a messenger.
Aiya, this is mutiny!
So you wont take orders!
the girl cried, And why cant you go yourselves?
You may be able to fool newcomers but you cant fool me.
Whos to run errands if not you?
Whenever you get wind of any perks of handouts to one of the stewards wives, you dash off like dogs with wagging tails to announce it.
Have you no sense of respect?
Would you respond like this to Madam Lians instructions?
The women had been drinking, and now that this maid had shown them up they retorted angrily Shut your filthy mouth.
Whether we run errands or not is none of your business.
Youve no right to nag at us.
You know very well how that father and mother of yours toady to the stewards of your mansion theyre worse than any of us.
People who live in glass houses shouldnt throw stones.
We know whats what.
We belong to different households.
Go and impress your own people if you can, before you come here meddling in our affairs.
Fine, fine, snapped the maid.
Thats fine!
Livid with anger she hurried back to report this.
Madam You, now in the Garden, had come across Xiren, Baoqin and Xiangyun exchanging stories and jokes with two nuns from the Ksitigarbha Nunnery.
Explaining that she was hungry, she went on to Happy Red Court where Xiren offered her some sweet and savoury pastries.
The two nuns and Baoqin and Xiangyun went on sipping tea and telling stories till the maid arrived, fuming, to report everything the women had said.
Who were they?
asked Madam You grimly.
To spare her feelings, the nuns and Baoqin and Xiangyun suggested that it must be a misunderstanding the maid had heard wrongly.
The nuns nudged the maid.
You lose your temper too easily, miss, they scolded.
Why pass on all the nonsense those silly old women talk?
Madams health is whats important.
Here shes been wearing herself out for days, and not a bite to eat or a drop to drink has she had yet.
The least we can do is try to keep her amused.
Why should you tell such tales?
Xiren drew the maid aside.
Good sister, just go out and have a rest, she coaxed.
Ill get someone to fetch them.
No need, said Madam You.
Just send for those two women, then fetch Xifeng here.
Ill go, offered Xiren.
No, not you, replied Madam You.
The two nuns rose respectfully to their feet to demur, Youre so magnanimous, madam, wont it make for talk if you lose your temper today of all days when our Old Ancestress is celebrating her birthday?
Baoqin and Xiangyun interceded too.
All right then, said Madam You.
If it werent for the old ladys birthday Id certainly thrash this out.
As it is, Ill overlook it for the time being.
Meanwhile the girl sent by Xiren to find some woman in charge outside the Garden had met Zhou Ruis wife and told her what had happened.
Though Mrs. Zhou was not in charge, as the maid who had attended Lady Wang to the Jia mansion at the time of her marriage she was a person of some consequence, and so quick-witted and ingratiating that all the mistresses liked her.
She now hurried to Happy Red Court, exclaiming as she ran The mistresss angry!
That will never do.
Things have come to a pretty pass.
If only Id been there!
Ill slap their faces for them, and in a few days well deal with them properly.
When Madam You saw her she cried, Come on, Sister Zhou, lets hear what you think about this.
The Garden gates are still wide open so late, with the lanterns alight and all sorts of people going in and out.
What if anything happens?
So I decided to tell the women on duty to put out the lights and lockup.
But to my surprise there was no one there at all.
How outrageous!
said Mrs. Zhou.
The other day Madam Lian told them that with all sorts of people here these days they must lock up and put out the lights as soon as it gets dark, and not let any outsiders into the Garden.
Yet today they leave their posts.
When these celebrations are over, some of them must be given a good hiding!
Madam You then told her what the maid had reported.
Dont be angry, madam, urged Mrs. Zhou.
After the merry-making Ill get the stewards to beat them within an inch of their lives, and well ask who told them to talk in that way about different households.
Now Ive ordered the lights to be put out and the main and the side gates closed.
Just then a maid arrived from Xifeng to invite Madam You to supper.
Im not hungry now, was the answer.
Ive just had some pastries.
Ask your mistress to start without me.
Mrs. Zhou went off to report this to Xifeng.
Those two women carry on like stewardesses, she said.
And when we speak to them they treat us like dirt.
If you dont make an example of them, madam, Madam You is going to feel slighted.
In that case, replied Xifeng, remember those two womens names, and when this commotion is over have them tied up and sent to the other mansion for Madam You to beat or pardon as she thinks fit.
This was just what Mrs. Zhou had been hoping for, as she had long been on bad terms with both women.
On withdrawing she sent a page with this message to Lin Zhixiaos wife, and asked her to go straight to see Madam You.
At the same time she sent people to have both those women tied up and kept under guard in the stable.
It was dark now and, not knowing what was afoot, Lin Zhixiaos wife took a carriage to the mansion.
She went first to Xifengs quarters.
But when she announced herself at the inner gate some maids came out to tell her The mistress has just gone to bed.
Madam You is in the Garden.
You can go and see her there.
So Mrs. Lin had to go to the Garden.
When the maids at Paddy-Sweet Cottage announced her, Madam You regretted the trouble she had caused her.
Inviting her in she said I only asked for you because I couldnt find the women on duty.
It isnt all that important.
Since youd left they shouldnt have called you back again, making a trip for nothing.
Its a small matter and Ive already set it aside.
Mrs. Lin responded with a smile.
Madam Lian sent to tell me you had some instructions for me, madam.
The idea!
I didnt know youd left or I wouldnt have asked for you.
Some busybodys been talking to Xifeng.
I suppose it was Sister Zhou.
You go back and rest now.
Its of no consequence.
Li Wan was on the point of explaining, but Madam You stopped her.
Seeing this, all Mrs. Lin could do was leave.
But it so happened that on her way out of the Garden she ran into Concubine Zhao.
Well, well, sister!
cried the concubine with a smile, Why are you running about here at this hour of the day instead of resting at home?
Mrs. Lin explained that she had gone home and why she had returned, then gave a detailed account of what had happened.
Now the concubine was naturally officious, and as she kept on good terms with the stewards wives, trading information with them, she had a fair idea of what had happened.
She told Mrs. Lin what she knew of the whole story.
So thats the way it was!
Mrs. Lin laughed.
What a storm in a teacup.
If shes kind shell forget it if shes mean, at most shell just give them a thrashing and have done with it.
My dear sister-in-law, said the concubine, this may not be serious but it shows how domineering they are, fetching you here for nothing to make an outright figure of fun of you.
Go back and rest now youll be busy tomorrow, so I wont keep you for tea.
Then Mrs. Lin left and was approaching the side gate when the daughters of those two women came up to her in tears and begged her to help.
You silly children, she scolded.
Who told your mothers to get drunk and talk nonsense, landing themselves in trouble?
This had nothing to do with me.
It was Madam Lian who had them tied up, and now people are holding me to blame too.
Im in no position to help you.
The two children, being only seven or eight, had no sense and just went on crying and pleading with her.
Unable to shake them off Mrs. Lin exclaimed, Silly creatures!
Why dont you approach the right people instead of pestering me?
She turned to one girl.
Your elder sisters mother-in-law Mrs. Fei came here with Lady Xing at the time of her marriage.
Get your sister to ask her mother-in-law to enlist Her Ladyships help, then your problem will be solved, wont it?
The little girl accepted this advice.
The other went on pleading.
How silly can you get?
snapped Mrs. Lin.
If she goes and asks, the whole business will blow over.
They cant just let her mother off and have yours beaten, can they?
With that she went off in her carriage.
So one of the small girls went to ask her sister to speak to old Mrs. Fei.
This Mrs. Fei, as Lady Xings personal maid at the time of her marriage, had once been of some consequence, but as Lady Xing had recently lost favour with the Lady Dowager her servants had lost some of their authority too thus they were always eager to find fault with the upper servants of ha Zhengs household.
Old Mrs. Fei, presuming on her age and Lady Xings backing, had taken to drinking and cursing people at random to work off her resentment.
The Lady Dowagers grand birthday celebrations had filled her with envy as she watched other people showing off their administrative ability and ordering their underlings about but no one in Jia Zhengs household paid much attention to her spiteful scolding and aspersions.
The news now that Zhou Ruis wife had had a relative of hers tied up added fuel to the fire of her indignation.
Being in her cups, she pointed at the wall separating the two brothers houses and loosed off a flood of abuse.
She then went to find Lady Xing.
My sons mother-in-law has done nothing wrong, she complained.
She had a few words with one of the maids of Madam You over in the other mansion, and at the instigation of Zhou Ruis wife Madam Lian has had her tied up in the stable.
Theyre threatening to beat her after the celebrations, and her an old woman of more than seventy too!
Please, Your Ladyship, ask Madam Lian to let her off this once.
Lady Xing had felt snubbed after her request for Yuanyang was turned down and since then the old lady had treated her more coldly, showing much more consideration to Xifeng.
Still, moreover, during the Dowager Princess of Nanans recent visit, when she asked to see the girls the Lady Dowager had sent for Tanchun but passed over Yingchun.
Lady Xings resentment had been rankling, only she had had no occasion to express it.
And now these jealous and spiteful servants, not daring to avenge their own grievances, kept making up stories to provoke her, first simply denouncing servants of ha Zhengs house, then by degrees throwing the blame on Xifeng herself.
They said Xifeng just curried favour with the old lady and liked to throw her weight about keeping her husband under her thumb, getting Lady Wang worked up, and showing no respect at all for the real mistress of the mansion.
Later, they even brought charges against Lady Wang, alleging that she and Xifeng had set the old lady against Lady Xing.
So even if Lady Xing had been strong-minded, as a woman she could not help bearing a grudge, and recently she had come to detest Xifeng.
When Mrs. Fei told her this tale she made no comment.
The next morning she went to pay her respects to the Lady Dowager.
The whole family had come to feast and watch operas, and the old lady was in high spirits.
As no distant relatives had been invited, only junior members of the family, she came out in informal dress to receive their salutations in the hall, reclining on a couch in the middle furnished with a pillow, back-rest and foot-stool.
Seated on low stools around the couch were Baochai, Baoqin, Daiyu, Xiangyun, Yingchun, Tanchun and Xichun.
Jia Bins mother had brought her daughter Xiluan too, Jia Qiongs mother her daughter Sijie, and about twenty other grand-nieces of different ages had assembled as well.
As Xiluan and Siqi were good-looking, well-spoken girls a cut above the others, the Lady Dowager was delighted with them and made them also sit in front of her couch where Baoyu was massaging her legs.
Aunt Xue had the seat of honour, the others sitting down in a row on each side according to their ages and the seniority of their family branch.
In the corridor outside the portiere the male members of the clan also sat in due order.
First the women of the clan, row by row, paid their respects then the men.
By the time the old lady on her couch told them to desist, they had all gone through the ceremonies.
Then Lai Da led the other stewards and servants to kowtow, kneeling from the ceremonial gate to the hall.
They were followed by their wives, then the maids from various apartments.
This went on for the time it would take for two or three meals, and after that many bird-cages were brought into the courtyard and the birds let loose.
1 Jia She and the others burnt incense and paper money to sacrifice to Heaven, Earth and the God of Longevity and only then did they start to watch operas and feast.
Not until the interval did the old lady retire to her room to rest, enjoining the others to enjoy themselves.
She also told Xifeng to keep Xiluan and Sijie there to have a good time for a couple of days.
Xifeng went out to inform the girlsmothers, and as they owed much to her they agreed with alacrity.
And the girls were only too glad to amuse themselves in the Garden, and spend the night there.
That evening when the time came for the party to break up, Lady Xing in front of everyone approached Xifeng with a smile to ask her a favour.
Last night I heard you were angry and sent Steward Zhous wife to have two old women tied up I dont know what theyd done wrong.
By rights I shouldnt ask to have them let off, but it seems to me the old ladys birthday is surely the time to give alms to the poor and aged, yet here we are punishing old folk instead.
So if you wont give me this face, do at least let them off for the old ladys sake!
After this speech she went off in her carriage.
Mortified at being addressed like this in front of so many people, Xifeng flushed crimson, quite put out for a moment.
Then she turned with a cold laugh to Mrs. Lai and the stewards wives.
How extraordinary!
she said.
Yesterday some of this household annoyed Madam You of the other mansion, and not wanting her to take offence I left her to deal with the culprits.
It wasnt because they had offended me.
Whos been telling tales again?
Lady Wang asked what all this was about, and Xifeng reported what had happened the previous day.
Then Madam You said with a smile, I had no idea of this.
And you neednt have meddled.
I wanted to save your face, retorted Xifeng.
Thats why I left you to deal with them that seemed only reasonable.
Just as, if someone in your place offended me, stands to reason youd send her to me to deal with, however much of a favourite that servant might be.
I dont know what busybody went and reported this as if it was something of consequence, just to prove her loyalty.
But what your mother-in-law said is right, put in Lady Wang.
Your cousin Zhens wife isnt an outsider, so such formalities are uncalled for.
The old ladys birthday is the important thing.
Youd better let them off.
She turned and gave orders for both old women to be released.
More mortified than ever, in her frustration Xifeng could not hold back her tears.
But not wanting anyone to see her weep, she went back in a pique to her room.
However, it so happened that the Lady Dowager sent Hupo to fetch her.
When Hupo saw her she exclaimed in surprise Whats come over you suddenly?
The old lady wants you.
Xifeng hastily wiped her eyes, washed and powdered her face, then went over with Hupo.
The Lady Dowager asked her, How many of those families who sent presents the other day sent screens?
Sixteen families, replied Xifeng.
There are twelve big screens and four small ones for kang.
The big screen sent by the Zhens south of the Yangzi has twelve red tapestry scenes from the opera Every Son a High Minister on one side and on the other gilded depictions of the character Longevity in various styles of calligraphy.
Thats the best of the lot.
Then theres a glass screen from the family of Admiral Wu of Canton which isnt bad.
In that case dont dispose of those two, but store them in a safe place, the old lady said.
I want to give them as presents.
As Xifeng assented, Yuanyang suddenly stepped forward to stare at her.
Dont you know her?
asked the old lady.
What are you staring for?
Im wondering why her eyes are so swollen, answered Yuanyang with a smile.
The Lady Dowager told Xifeng to come closer and looked at her hard.
Xifeng tried to laugh it off.
My eyes were itching so I rubbed them, she said.
Yuanyang chuckled, Has someone been provoking you again?
Who would dare?
retorted Xifeng.
Even if someone did, I wouldnt dare cry on the old ladys birthday.
Quite right, agreed the Lady Dowager.
Im just going to have my supper.
You can wait on me, then take whats left for yourself and Chens wife.
Then you two must help the two nuns to pick some Buddhist beans for me.
Thatll bring you long life too.
The other day your girl cousins and Baoyu did that so I want you to do it too, and then you cant accuse me of favouritism.
As she was speaking a vegetarian meal was served for the two nuns, after which a meal with meat was brought for the old lady.
When she had finished eating, the remainder was taken to the outer room for Madam You and Xifeng.
They had just started their meal when the old lady sent for Xiluan and Sijie to join them.
After that they washed their hands and lit incense, and a pint of beans was brought.
First the two nuns chanted some Buddhist incantations over it, then they picked out the beans one by one and put them in a basket, chanting the name of Buddha over each.
These beans would be cooked and distributed at the crossroads to bring longevity.
The old lady lay down on her couch then and listened to the Buddhist tales of karma told by the nuns.
Yuanyang, having heard from Hupo about Xifeng crying, had found out the reason from Pinger.
So that night after the others had left she reported Madam Lian did cry, because Lady Xing made her lose face in public.
Asked how it had happened, she told the old lady.
The Lady Dowager said, This shows Xifeng has good manners.
How can she allow servants to offend each and every mistress in our clan and get away with it just because its my birthday?
Lady Xings been sulking for some time but didnt dare flare up.
This gave her the excuse to shame Xifeng in public.
Just then Baoqin came in and they broke off, the old lady asking Baoqin where she had come from.
We were chatting in Cousin Lins place in the Garden, she answered.
This reminded the Lady Dowager of something, and she ordered an old woman to take her instructions to the servants in the Garden.
Ive kept Xiluan and Sijie here, she said.
Though they may be poor theyre the same as our own young ladies, so you must look after them well.
I know all our servants, men and women alike, are impressed only by riches and rank and unlikely to think much of them but if I hear of anyone showing them the least disrespect, theres going to be trouble!
The woman assented and was about to leave when Yuanyang said, Ill go.
The people there wouldnt pay any attention to her.
She went straight to the Garden, going first to Paddy-Sweet Cottage.
Finding neither Li Wan nor Madam You there, she questioned the maids who told her that they were with Tanchun.
Yuanyang went on to Morning Emerald Hall and, sure enough, found all the inmates of the Garden there chatting.
At sight of her they pressed her to take a seat.
What brings you here at this hour?
they asked.
Cant I come and enjoy myself as well?
Yuanyang chuckled before giving them the old ladys message.
Li Wan hastily stood up to hear it, then sent for the chief servants from each household and ordered them to pass on these instructions.
Madam You remarked, The old lady really thinks of everything.
Even ten of us healthy young people put together arent up to her Li Wan said, Xifengs devilish clever, she comes closest to her but the rest of us cant hold a candle to her.
Dont talk about her, poor thing, put in Yuanyang.
These last few years she may have made no mistakes that the old lady knows of, but shes offended goodness knows how many other people.
Well, its hard to please everybody.
If youre too honest and dont know any tricks, your father and mother-in-law will think you a simpleton and the household wont respect you.
If youre full of tricks, youll please some and offend others.
In our family especially, this new lot of mistresses promoted from slaves are so puffed up they all think they can do as they like.
If theyre in the least dissatisfied, they gossip behind peoples backs or stir up trouble.
So as not to upset the old lady, I havent breathed a word about this to her.
If I did, none of us could have a single day of peace!
I shouldnt be saying this in front of you, Miss Tanchun, but when someone complains on the sly that the old lady dotes on Baoyu, that doesnt matter it counts as natural partiality.
But when the old lady shows her fondness for you, I hear the same person complain.
Isnt that ridiculous?
Tanchun said with a smile, There are plenty of silly people dont take it so seriously.
It seems to me humble households are better off having fewer people even though theyre poorer, because parents and children enjoy themselves together, laughing and joking.
In a big family like ours, outsiders think our wealthy young ladies must be very happy.
Little do they know the unspeakable troubles we have here, much worse than anywhere else.
Other people dont worry as much as you, third sister, said Baoyu.
Im always urging you not to listen to that vulgar talk or think about those vulgar matters.
Just enjoy your wealth and high rank.
Youre luckier than us men who cant enjoy a quiet, leisurely life, but have to muck about.
Who can compare with you, with not a care in the world?
asked Madam You.
All you do is play around with your girl cousins, eating when youre hungry, sleeping when youre tired and going on like this year after year, taking no thought at all for the future.
Every day I spend with my cousins is all to the good, he answered.
When I die that 11 be the end.
Who cares about the future?
The others laughed.
Youre talking nonsense again, teased Li Wan.
Even if you were good for nothing and stayed here all your life, these girls would get married and leave the family, wouldnt they?
No wonder people say you belie your handsome looks, chuckled Madam You.
Youre really and truly a fool.
A mans fate is uncertain, Baoyu quipped.
Who knows when he will die?
If I died today or tomorrow, this year or next, Id die content.
The others hastily stopped him.
Hes raving again, they said.
We mustnt talk to him.
If we do, he talks like a fool or a lunatic.
Dont say such things, Cousin Bao, Xiluan put in.
When all your sisters and cousins here have left to get married, the old lady and the mistress are bound to feel lonely too then Ill come and keep you cornpany.
Li Wan and Madam You laughed.
Youre talking nonsense too, child.
Are you never going to get married?
Whom are you trying to fool?
Xiluan blushed and lowered her head.
It was then already the first watch, so they all went back to their own rooms to rest.
Yuanyang, when she reached the Garden gate, saw that the side gates were closed but not yet bolted.
There was nobody about, and the only light apart from the faint moonlight was in the gatehouse.
As she was all alone and had not brought a lantern, and as she walked quietly, no one in the gatehouse had noticed her approach.
Happening just then to want to relieve herself, she left the path and walked across the grass to the back of a rockery under a large fragrant osmanthus.
She had just skirted the rockery when the rustle of clothes made her start with fright, and looking in that direction she saw two people who at sight of her ducked behind some rocks under the trees.
But Yuanyang had seen in the moon-light that one of them, a tall, buxom maid in a red skirt with loosely tied hair, was Siqi from Yingchuns apartments.
Assuming that she and another girl were also relieving themselves here and had dodged out of sight to frighten her for fun, she called out laughingly Siqi, if you dont come out quickly and try to scare me, Ill scream and have you caught as a thief.
Fancy a big girl like you fooling about at this time of the night.
Yuanyang was only teasing to get her to come out.
But Siqi, having a guilty conscience, thought she had been caught red-handed and was afraid Yuanyangs shouts would alert other people, which would be even worse.
As Yuanyang had always treated her well, better than the other girls, she ran out from behind the tree to catch hold of her arm.
Good sister.
she begged, dropping to her knees.
Do keep quiet for goodness sake.
Puzzled by this, Yuanyang pulled her up to ask, What do you mean?
Siqi blushed crimson and burst into tears.
Then Yuanyang remembered that the other figure had looked something like a young man, and she guessed more or less what had happened.
She flushed up to her ears, quite consternated.
Presently, taking a grip on herself, she asked softly Who was he?
Siqi sank to her knees again.
My cousin, she faltered.
Yuanyang spat in disgust.
How could you?
Siqi turned and hissed, Its no use hiding.
Sisters seen you.
Come here quick and kowtow to her.
At that the page boy had to crawl out from behind the tree to thump his head vigorously on the ground.
Yuanyang wanted to hurry away, but Siqi caught hold of her and begged through her sobs Our lives are in your hands, sister.
Do, please, let us off!
Dont worry, said Yuanyang.
I wont tell a soul.
As she was speaking they heard someone at the side gate call, Miss Jins left.
Lock the gate.
Yuanyang, unable to shake off Siqis grip, promptly called out, Im still here.
Just wait a bit, Ill be leaving in a minute.
Then Siqi had to let her go.
To know what came of this, read on.
Chapter 72 Xifeng Puts up a Bold Front, Ashamed to Admit Her illness Lai Wangs Wife Relies on Her Mistress Power to Force Through a Match for Her Son Yuanyang left the side gate still blushing, in a flutter after this shock.
This is serious!
she thought.
If it got out, the charge of lewdness linked with theft might even cost them their lives besides involving other people.
Well, as its no concern of mine, Id better keep it to myself and not tell a soul.
So on her return she simply reported that she had passed on the Lady Dowagers orders, after which they all went to bed.
After this Yuanyang seldom went to the Garden after dark and reflecting that if even the Garden was the scene of such strange carryings-on, other places must be still worse, she went nowhere else either if she could avoid it.
Now Siqi and her cousin had been playmates as children and vowed in fun to marry no one else.
Both of them had now grown up good-looking, and whenever Siqi went home they would exchange glances, recalling their former feeling for each other although neither could make open overtures.
Besides, they feared their parents disapproval.
So they had bribed the women in charge of the Garden gate to leave it open, and taking advantage of todays confusion had had their first rendezvous.
Although they had not made love, they had secretly exchanged solemn vows and pledges, baring their hearts to each other.
Their sudden discovery by Yuanyang had made the boy run off through the flowers and willows to slip out by the side gate.
Siqi, repenting too late, could not sleep that night.
The next day when she saw Yuanyang she turned red and white by turns in an agony of embarrassment and guilt.
She lost her appetite and grew quite bemused.
But when two days passed without any repercussions she began to feel somewhat easier in her mind.
That evening, however, one of the matrons came to tell her in confidence, Your cousins skedaddled.
He hasnt been home for three or four days and a search is being made for him everywhere.
Distraught by this news Siqi thought, Even if theres a scandal we ought to die together.
Of course, being a man he can go anywhere he wants to.
How heartless he is!
This embittered her so much that the next day she felt too upset to bear up.
Ill with frustration she took to her bed.
When Yuanyang learned that a page in the Jia household had fled and Siqi was asking to go home on sick leave, she knew they were afraid of the consequences if she disclosed their secret.
As this preyed on her mind, she went to see Siqi.
After sending everyone else out of the room, she gave the girl her solemn word Ill die before I breathe a word about this.
Just stop worrying and nurse your illness.
Dont risk your little life like this, child!
Siqi caught her by the arm.
Sister, weve been on good terms since we were children, she sobbed.
Youve never .treated me as an outsider and Ive always respected you.
Now if youll really keep my slip-up a secret, I shall look on you as my own mother for Ill owe every day that I live to you.
If I get well, I shall set up a shrine to you and burn incense and bow to it every day to pray for good fortune and long life for you.
If I die, Ill become a donkey or a dog so as to repay your kindness.
Even the longest feast must break up at last, says the proverb.
In two or three years we shall all be leaving this place.
Still, even floating weeds may come together again, much more so human beings.
And if we do meet again I shall try to repay your goodness.
She shed tears as she spoke.
By now Yuanyang was weeping in sympathy.
Nodding she said, All right.
Im not in charge, so why should I spoil your good name?
Why be so officious?
In any case, I could never bring myself to speak of such a thing.
So dont you worry.
When youre better you must behave more circumspectly and not carry on like that.
Siqi propped on her pillow nodded repeatedly, and after more reassurances Yuanyang left.
As she knew that Jia Lian was away and these last few days Xifeng had looked out of sorts, quite unlike her usual self, on the way back she called to see her.
When she entered the courtyard the servants at the inner gate stood up to let her in, and as she stepped into the hail Pinger came out of the bedroom and approached her.
Shes just had a bite to eat and is having a nap, Pinger whispered.
Wont you wait in the other room for a while?
She took her to the eastern room where a maid served tea.
Whats the matter with your mistress these days?
Yuanyang asked in a low voice.
Ive noticed she seems very listless.
As they were alone Pinger sighed, Shes been this way for some time, at least a month.
And these last few days shes been kept on the go and provoked into the bargain, so thats brought on a relapse.
As its worse now than before, she cant put up a brave front and hide it.
In that case why not get a doctor in good time?
Again Pinger sighed.
Dont you know the way she is, sister?
She wont hear of fetching a doctor or taking medicine.
When I simply asked out of concern how she felt, she swore crossly that my nagging was making her ill.
Poorly as she is, she still insists on checking on this and that every day instead of taking things easy to get back her health.
Even so, you ought to get a doctor to diagnose her illness and save us all worry.
Im afraid its something serious.
What do you mean?
Pinger drew closer to whisper, Since her period last month shes been having fluxions off and on non-stop.
Wouldnt you call that serious?
Aiya!
From what you say, it sounds like menorrhagia.
Pinger spat in disgust, then chuckled.
What does a girl like you know about such things?
Its unlucky to talk like that.
Yuanyang blushed.
I didnt know any such things to start with, she answered.
But have you forgotten that was how my sister died?
Id no idea what her illness was till I overheard my mother telling her mother-in-law, and the name meant nothing to me.
Later I heard mother explain its cause and that gave me an inkling.
Yes, Id forgotten that, said Pinger gently.
As they were chatting a maid came in.
Just now Mrs. Zhu came again, she announced.
We told her the mistress is having a siesta, so she went to Lady Wangs place.
Pinger nodded.
Yuanyang asked, Which Mrs. Zhu?
That professional go-between, Pinger explained.
The family of some official named Sun wants to arrange a match with us, so recently shes been turning up here every day with a card, making a regular nuisance of herself.
Before she had finished the maid returned to report, The masters back.
By now Jia Lian was calling Pinger from the door of the hall, and before she could go to meet him he stepped through her doorway.
At sight of Yuanyang seated on the kang he halted.
What brings our distinguished Sister Yuanyang to our humble abode?
he asked smiling.
Remaining seated she answered, I came to pay my respects to you and madam, but you were out and she was having a nap.
You work so hard all the year round for the old lady, by rights I should call on you.
How can we trouble you to come to see us?
He added, Still, this is very opportune.
I was meaning to go and see you, but felt so hot in this heavy gown that I came back first to change into a lighter one.
Now Heaven has taken pity on me and saved me a trip by having you waiting here.
He seated himself on a chair.
She asked what his business was.
Its slipped my mind, Jia Lian chuckled, but you may remember.
On the old ladys birthday last year, an itinerant monk presented her with a Buddhas-hand made of soapstone and as the old lady took a fancy to it, it was taken straight to her place for display.
The other day on her birthday I checked our inventory of curios and found this listed there, but I dont know where its got to now.
The caretakers of the storeroom for antiques have mentioned it several times, as they want to record where it is.
So I meant to ask you whether its still in the old ladys place or whom shes given it to.
The old lady had it out for a couple of days, then got tired of it and gave it to Madam Lian, was Yuanyangs answer.
So now you are asking me!
I even remember the day when I sent Old Wangs wife to bring it here.
If you cant remember, ask Madam Lian or Pinger.
Pinger who was getting out clothes for Jia Lian came out on hearing this.
Yes, it was delivered here.
Its kept upstairs, she said.
Madam sent to tell them that it had been given to us, but the fools must have forgotten to record it.
Now theyre pestering us again over these trifles.
Jia Lian grinned.
How come I didnt know it was given to your mistress?
You two must have pocketed it.
She told you, sir, Pinger retorted.
You wanted to give it to someone else, but she didnt agree, so we managed to hang on to it.
Now youve forgotten and say weve kept it.
What precious, priceless rarity is it, pray?
Weve never kept anything from you, not even things ten times better than this.
Why should we value that worthless object now?
Jia Lian lowered his head with a smile to think this over, then clapped his hands.
Yes, Im getting muddle-headed and forgetful, he exclaimed.
I dont wonder you scold me my memorys not what it was.
Yuanyang smiled.
Youre not to blame.
You have so much to attend to, so many people coming to you with requests and then when you drink a few cups of wine how can you remember every single thing?
While saying this she rose to take her leave.
Jia Lian stood up hastily too.
Dear sister, please sit down for a while, he begged.
Ive something else to ask you.
He reprimanded the maid, Why didnt you brew some better tea?
Hurry up and fetch a clean bowl with a lid and brew some of that new tribute tea.
Turning back to Yuanyang he went on, These days, because of the old ladys birthday, Ive spent the few thousand taels of silver I had.
Our house rents and land rents from various places wont be coming in till the ninth month, so right now Im rather hard up.
Tomorrow I have to send presents to the Prince of Nanan and prepare Double-Ninth gifts for Her Imperial Highness then there are weddings and funerals coming up in several other families too.
I need at least two or three thousand taels, and I cant raise that sum quickly.
As the proverb says, Its better to ask of ones own folk than of outsiders.
So I wonder, sister, if youll stick your neck out and filch me a case of gold and silver utensils which the old lady isnt using for the time being.
I can pawn them for some silver to tide over.
In less than half a year, when my money comes in, Ill redeem them and return them.
I promise not to land you in any trouble.
You certainly know a trick or two, Yuanyang laughed.
The idea!
I wont lie to you, he chuckled.
Apart from you, there are several others who have control of plenty of silver, but none of them is as sensible and plucky as you.
If I approached them theyd take fright.
So Id rather strike the golden bell once instead of trying all the broken drums.
At this point one of the Lady Dowagers maids hurried in in search of Yuanyang.
The old lady wants you, miss, she said.
Weve been looking everywhere, but here you were all the time.
Then Yuanyang quickly went back.
As soon as she had gone Jia Lian went in to see Xifeng, who had woken up and heard him ask for a loan.
Not liking to interpose, she just lay on the kang until Yuanyang had left and Jia Lian entered her room.
Did she agree?
she asked him.
Not in so many words, but it looks hopeful, he answered cheerfully.
You must go and mention it again this evening, and that should fix it.
Ill do nothing of the sort, retorted Xifeng.
If she agrees, once you get hold of the money youll forget all your fine talk and promises now.
Whos going to run such a risk for you?
If it came to the old ladys ears, Id lose all the face Ive had the last few years.
Be an angel, he begged.
If you fix this up, Ill make it worth your while hows that?
What with?
Whatever you say.
Pinger beside them put in, Dont ask for any other rewards, madam.
Just yesterday you were saying you needed a couple of hundred taels.
If you get this loan you can deduct them from that.
Wouldnt that suit you both?
Im glad you reminded me, cried Xifeng gaily.
All right then.
What a hard bargain you drive, protested Jia ian.
Dont talk about pawning things for a mere thousand taels when I know you could easily produce three to five thousand of ready cash here and now.
You should be thankful Im not borrowing from you, just asking you to put in a word and yet you still demand interest.
This is the limit... Before he could go on, Xifeng sprang up.
If I have three thousand or fifty thousand, I didnt earn it from you.
she cried.
Nowadays everybody inside and out, high and low, keeps carping about me behind my back, so you may as well join in.
Ghosts from outside dont come in unless theyre invited by some family devils.
Where did our Wang familys money come from, pray?
Is it all from your Jia family?
Dont make me vomit.
You think youre as rich as a mint-master.
The sweepings from the cracks in our Wang familys floor are enough to last you a lifetime.
Arent you ashamed talking like that?
Theres evidence to prove it.
Just look at the dowries Lady Wang and I brought and compare them with yours.
In what way are we inferior to you?
Why take a joke so seriously?
he asked, smiling.
This is nothing to get so worked up about.
If you want a couple of hundred taels, thats nothing.
More than that I cant manage, but this I can afford.
Suppose you take that to be going on with before you raise this loan?
Im not waiting for that to pay for my funeral, so whats the hurry?
Why carry on like that?
Theres no need to flare up.
Dont accuse me of temper.
But your words cut me to the heart.
I was thinking that the day after tomorrow is the anniversary of Second Sister Yous death and as she and I were good friends, the least I can do is burn some paper money at her grave for friendships sake.
Though she didnt leave any children, we shouldnt forget her now that shes turned to dust.
Jia Lian lowered his head and was silent for some time.
Id forgotten, he admitted.
Its good of you to remember.
If you dont need the money till the day after tomorrow, wait till we raise this loan tomorrow, then you can take as much as you want from it.
Just then Lai Wangs wife came in.
Is it settled?
Xifeng asked her.
No, nothing doing, answered Mrs. Lai.
But I think if you sponsor it, madam, it should come off.
Jia ian wanted to know what they were talking about.
Its of no great consequence, Xifeng told him.
Lai Wang has a son whos seventeen this year and not yet married.
They want Caixia who waits on Lady Wang, but dont know whether Her Ladyship will agree.
The other day she kindly said that as Caixia is grown up and so delicate she can be given her freedom and sent home, so that her parents can arrange for her marriage.
Then Mrs. Lai approached me.
I thought the two families being fairly well matched, once the request was made it was bound to be granted.
Yet here she comes now saying nothing doing!
What does that matter?
he rejoined.
There are plenty of better girls than Caixia.
Mrs. Lai put in with a smile, You may look at it that way, sir but her family turning us down like that will make others look down on us even more.
Its not so easy to find a suitable girl.
I thought with your help we could fix it up that at a word from madam theyd surely agree.
So I troubled some one to go and sound them out, but to my surprise we got snubbed.
The girl herself is agreeable and never seemed to be against the match, but those two old creatures have grander ideas for their daughter.
This was a challenge to Xifeng and Jia Lian but as her husband was there the former said nothing, just waited to see his reaction.
Jia Lian having other things on his mind did not take this seriously.
However, as Mrs. ai had accompanied Xifeng here at the time of her wedding and served them well, he could hardly ignore her request.
Its not all that important, he said.
Why keep on about it?
Dont worry, you can go now.
Tomorrow Ill act as go between and send two respectable fellows with betrothal gifts to tell them its my proposal.
If they still hold out, well get them to come and see me.
At a sign from Xifeng, Mrs. Lai fell on her knees to kowtow her thanks to Jia Lian.
Its your mistress you should be kowtowing to, he said.
Even though Ill do what I can, it would be best for her to send for Caixias mother and put it to her nicely.
Otherwise even if they agree, well seem too overbearing.
If youre willing to go to this trouble for her, put in Xifeng, how can I just stand watching?
Well, Mrs. Lai, youve heard that.
After this is settled, you must hurry up and see to my business for me.
Tell your husband to collect all the money lent out before the end of this year not a single cash short.
Ive a bad enough reputation as it is.
I dont want to make it worse by going on lending out money.
Lai Wangs wife laughed.
You neednt worry, madam.
Who would dare say a word against you?
But, honestly speaking, if you stopped lending out that money wed save ourselves trouble and offend fewer people.
Xifeng snorted.
Ive acted like a fool all for nothing.
What did I need money for?
Only for daily expenses, as were overspending our income and our household is always short.
My monthly allowance and his, plus those of our four maids, come to only some twenty taels a month not enough to last three or five days.
If I hadnt raised more by hook or by crook, wed long ago have had to move into some tumble-down cave.
But all Ive got for my pains is the reputation of a moneylender.
So I may as well call in all those loans.
I can spend money as well as anyone else.
In future lets all sit here spending, without worrying how long the money will last.
Isnt that the idea?
Before the old ladys birthday the other day, Lady Wang worried for two months, not knowing how to raise funds, till I reminded her that in the back upstairs storeroom there were four or five cases of big copper and pewter vessels lying useless.
By pawning these for three hundred taels she managed to make her contribution.
As for me, as you know, I sold that gold striking-clock for five hundred and sixty-four taels.
But in less than half a month it all went on some ten outlays big and small.
Now that even our treasury is short, someones had the bright idea of milking the old lady.
A few more years and well be reduced to selling our clothes and jewellery, and wont that be fine!
Lai Wangs wife chuckled.
The clothes and jewels of any single one of our mistresses would raise enough to last us a whole lifetime.
But of course that would never do.
Its not that Ive got cold feet, Xifeng insisted.
But if things go on this way I really cant cope.
Last night I suddenly had a very odd dream.
I dreamed that someone with a familiar face, but whose name I couldnt recollect, came to see me.
When I asked her business, she said Her Imperial Highness had sent her to fetch a hundred rolls of silk from me.
I asked which Imperial Highness.
She told me it wasnt the one from our family, so I refused.
Then she tried to take the silk by force.
We were scuffling when I woke up.
Lai Wangs wife said with a smile, Thats because youd been worrying all day about presents for the Palace.
Just then it was announced that the eunuch Xia had sent a young eunuch to see them.
Jia Lian frowned.
What is it this time?
he exclaimed.
Havent they squeezed enough out of us this year?
You keep out of sight and let me handle this, suggested Xifeng.
If its some small matter, all right.
It its something important I know how to ward him off.
Jia Lian withdrew then to the annex.
Xifeng ordered the young eunuch to be brought in and offered him a seat, after which tea was served.
She then asked his business.
His Excellency Xia saw a house today which hed like to buy, but hes two hundred taels short, was the answer.
He sent me to ask you, madam, if you have ready money at home and can lend him a couple of hundred for the time being.
Hell pay you back in a few days.
Xifeng replied with a smile, Dont speak of paying us back.
Weve plenty of silver here just take any amount you need.
If ever were short of funds, well apply to you.
His Excellency also said he still hasnt repaid the twelve hundred taels he borrowed the last two times.
He will definitely return it all before the end of the year.
His Excellency is too scrupulous.
Xifeng laughed.
He may as well forget it.
At the risk of offending him Id like to say that if he remembered to pay us back all hes borrowed, goodness knows how much that would come to.
The only thing that worries us is that we may not have money when he needs it.
As long as we have, he can take it.
She called for Lai Wangs wife and told her, Go and get hold of two hundred taels from somewhere.
Taking the hint, Mrs. Lai replied, I came to borrow from you, madam, because I couldnt raise money anywhere else.
You just come in asking us for money, scolded Xifeng, When I ask you to get some outside, you say you cant.
She told Pinger, Take those two gold necklets of mine and have them pawned for four hundred taels.
Pinger went off, returning after some lapse of time with a brocade-covered box containing two silk wrappers.
In one was a gold filigree necklet studded with pearls as large as lotus seeds in the other, a jewelled green enamel necklet.
Both were similar to those made for the Palace.
She took these away and soon brought back four hundred taels, half of which on Xifengs instructions she gave to the young eunuch, the other half to Lai Wangs wife to meet expenses for the Moon Festival.
Then the young eunuch took his leave, and a servant was ordered to carry the silver for him and see him out of the main gate.
Jia Lian returned now demanding, When will those scoundrels outside stop plaguing us?
Xifeng chuckled, Its a case of talk of the devil.
Yesterday the eunuch Zhou came and asked straight out for a thousand tales.
When I hedged, he looked put out.
In future were bound to offend them even more often.
I only wish we could come into another two or three million taels.
While he was speaking Pinger helped her mistress with her toilet, and then Xifeng went to wait upon the Lady Dowager at dinner.
Jia Lian had barely gone to his outside study when Lin Zhixiao appeared.
Just now I heard that Jia Yucun has lost his post, he reported.
I dont know why.
Of course, it may not be true.
Whether its true or not, hes not likely to keep his present post for long, replied Jia Lian.
If he gets into trouble, Im afraid well be involved.
It would be better to keep clear of him.
Quite so, agreed Lin.
But thats easier said than done.
At the moment hes very thick with the master of the East Mansion, and our master Lord She likes him too.
Every body knows that hes a frequent visitor here.
Provided we dont get involved in any of his schemes, it doesnt matter.
Go and check up to find out whats really happened.
Lin Zhixiao assented, but instead of leaving he sat there chatting until the subject of their financial straits came up again.
He took this chance to advise We should cut down on our household its too large.
Why not ask the old lady and the master to release some old servants who have served the family well but are no longer useful?
They all have independent means, and that would save us some money and grain each year.
We have too many maids as well.
Now that times have changed we cant follow the old rules but should tighten up a bit!
Those used to eight maids can make do with six, those used to four with two.
By cutting down like this in all our apartments wed save a good deal of money and grain every year.
And then half the girls in the household, who are grown up anyway, should get married.
With them married, our household would increase.
Wouldnt that be a good thing?
Ive had the same idea, agreed Jia Lian.
But the master is only just back, and there are quite a few important matters I havent yet reported to him so theres been no time to bring this up.
The other day when the professional match-maker came with a horoscope to propose a match, Her Ladyship told us not to mention it as His Lordship is just home, enjoying this family reunion, and a sudden proposal of this sort might upset him.
Quite right and proper too.
You think of everything, sir.
Yes, but this reminds me of something.
Our man Lai Wang wants Caixia in Her Ladyships place for his son.
Yesterday he asked my help.
As its nothing important, I dont think it matters which of you goes to propose it.
Just send anyone whos free and say I approve of the match.
-392 Lin Zhixiao could not but assent.
After a pause, however, he smiled.
Actually, sir, if I were you Id have nothing to do with this.
That son of Lai Wangs, for all hes so young, drinks and gambles and gets up to all sorts of devilry outside.
They may both be bond-servants still, marriage is for life.
Though I havent seen Caixia these last few years, I hear shes grown up a nice-looking girl.
Why ruin her life for her?
So that young fellows a dissolute drunkard, eh?
He not only drinks and gambles but carries on outrageously outside.
Weve turned a blind eye because his mother worked for madam.
I didnt know that, said Jia Lian.
In that case we certainly wont give him a wife.
Well give him a good beating instead, then have him locked up and take his parents to task.
This isnt the time for that.
The steward smiled.
I shouldnt have brought it up.
Wait till he makes trouble again and well report it to you, sir, for you to handle.
Better let him off for the time being.
Jia Lian said nothing to this, and soon Lin Zhixiao withdrew.
That evening Xifeng sent for Caixias mother and proposed the match.
Although the woman did not like the idea, as Xifeng had done her the honour of proposing it in person she had to agree out of hand.
After she had left, Xifeng asked Jia ian whether he had broached the matter.
I was meaning to, he said, but then I heard that the boy is a worthless wretch.
I thought if hes really no good, wed better discipline him for a couple of days before giving him a wife.
Who told you hes no good?
One of our servants, of course.
You think nothing of us Wangs, not even of me, much less our servants.
Ive spoken to Caixias mother and shes consented gladly.
Am I to call her back now and tell her its off?
Theres no need for that if youve already made the proposal.
Ill just tell the boys father tomorrow to give him a good dressing-down.
The rest of their conversation need not concern us.
Now Caixia after being released from service was waiting for her parents to choose her a husband.
Although she had been on friendly terms with ha Huan, nothing had come of it and now she saw Lai Wang coming repeatedly to ask for her hand.
As she had heard that his son was a drunkard and gambler and ugly into the bargain, she felt all the more upset for if Lai Wang fixed up this match with Xifengs backing her whole life would be ruined.
This prospect made her so frantic that that evening she secretly sent her younger sister Xiaoxia to Concubine Zhao, to find out the situation.
Concubine Zhao had always been on good terms with Caixia and was all for giving her to Jia Huan, for then she would have an ally in the house.
She had never expected Lady Wang to discharge her.
Day after day she urged ha Huan to go and ask for her, but he was too shy to speak and not too attracted by Caixia in any case.
To him, she was only a maid and he would have others in future so he procrastinated, quite willing to give her up.
His mother was reluctant to do this, however.
After the younger sister came for news, as she was free that evening she went to enlist ha Zhengs help.
Whats the hurry?
he asked.
Wait till the boys have studied a year or two more before we get concubines for them.
Ive already got two suitable maids in mind, one for Baoyu, one for Huan.
But theyre still young and it might hold up their studies so lets wait a couple of years.
Baoyus had one for two years already.
Didnt you know that sir?
asked Concubine Zhao.
At once Jia Zheng demanded, Who made the decision?
Before she could answer they heard a crash outside.
To know what had happened, read the following chapter.
